Where are you in your business right
now? The more measurable result is, the
easier it is for us to make it feel less
abstract and then we can assign a value
to it. So if my goal was I want my
designers to be better, is that an
abstract goal or is that a quantifiable
goal? It's super abstract. What happens
then is if you tell your designer, I
just need you to be better. They're
going to feel really bad. They're going
to be afraid they're going to lose their
job and you're going to feel frustrated
that they never achieved the goal
because the goal is super abstract. So
whenever possible when you get to it,
you can ask your clients this result
that you want, how will we know when we
get there? How do we measure it? Help me
out. And you can do that. This just
takes practice. Okay. So today, I feel
like we're playing basketball. I taught
you how to dribble, how to do like a
pass, and how to shoot. That doesn't
mean you're going to be an NBA player,
but it does mean you know the
foundational things, but with enough
practice, with confidence, you'll start
to get better and better at this.
The video you're about to watch is a
sales workshop that I had in Dubai. This
was just a glimpse of the full workshop
on conversational selling. If you want
more content like this, be sure you
check out the link in the description.
So, what we're going to do now is we're
going to get into the sales framework.
Okay? So, we know that everybody has a
present, a past, and a future. So, when
they come to you, they're in their now
state. I'm right here right now. I'm in
front of you. And some people would say
there's no past, there's no future, just
now. the other stuff are imagination or
memory or something like that. Okay, so
there's the now story and the now story
gives us context to what's going on. And
what we want to do is we want to have
this conversation really quickly
establish like where they're at. So you
can ask them like where are you in your
business right now? Just give me a
little highle summary of who you serve,
what problems you solve. Shall I know
I'm an architect? I'm looking for a
website and I hope you can solve that
problem. or we work with institutions
designing schools or government
buildings. Something has interrupted you
to create a problem for you. So if we
map out on a timeline that was years
ago, last year, this year, and then
today. So if nothing changes,
everything's cool. Like if you're happy
in your marriage, no problem. If you're
having some friction, there's some
communication problems, something
interrupted here. So, what we're trying
to do is find out in the timeline before
we get to now. Something happened,
caused a problem. Something changed. So,
that's what I refer to as the change
story. What we want to do is we want to
find out how they're feeling this pain.
And the more pain they feel, the more
urgent they seek a solution. We talked
about this before, right? Earlier today,
I said that there's the present, there's
the past, and then there's the future.
Before we can go to the future, we must
revisit the past, which is what we're
doing, and help them to feel the pain.
If there's no pain, we find a different
problem. Or we say, "I don't think
there's anything I can do for you. It
seems like everything is
okay. Seems like if you do nothing,
you'll be all right. You don't need a
new website. You don't need a new
identity design." And the funny thing is
when you say that, most of the time what
they do is they say to you, "No, I
really want the website. Identity is
really important." So then they'll tell
you, "I don't care what you say. It's
still urgent. I still feel that pain."
Even if it's really small. But if you
try to convince them that it's a really
big problem from a no problem, they're
like, "No, you're trying to push a sale
on me." So what happens is something
happened in the past. I'm feeling
immense pain. You're helping me
understand it. That leads us to
today. Okay, which we got. And then
we're gonna say that something is
standing in our way because I want
something and I haven't been able to
figure it out. I have an obstacle, but I
also have a want or a need and that's
going to take me to my desired future
state, the goal, the result, whatever it
is. Hopefully, it's super logical. And
the last one is the
impact. If at all possible, we want to
quantify to measure the result. The more
measurable a result is, the easier it is
for us to make it feel less abstract and
then we can assign a value to it. So if
my goal was I want my designers to be
better, is that an abstract goal or is
that a quantifiable goal? It's super
abstract. What happens then is if you
tell your designer, I just need you to
be better. They're going to feel really
bad. They're going to be afraid they're
going to lose their job and you're going
to feel frustrated that they've never
achieved the goal because the goal is
super abstract. So whenever possible,
when you get to it, you can ask your
clients, this result that you want, how
will we know when we get there? How do
we measure it? Help me
out. And you can do that. Uh customer
satisfaction is up, turnover rate is
down, we have more visitors to website,
whatever it is, it can be measured. Help
them measure it. So at this point,
you've pretty much got all the
information that you need, right? Tell
me where you're at in your business.
What has changed recently that's h
causing us to have this conversation
today?
And why is this urgent? Why not just
wait and do nothing? Those kinds of
questions you can ask. Okay, so what
what's standing in your way then? Why
haven't you been able to achieve this
before? What have you tried in the past?
And they'll tell you. So what is it that
you ultimately want? I want X, Y, and Z.
And if that happens, what do you get?
Okay. So if we were to play a game
called the five
W's. The five W's is whatever you want.
I just keep asking you
why. Sometimes three times, sometimes
four, sometimes five, but five is like
more than enough. I will show you right
now. Here's what we're going to do.
We're going to do a skills practice and
I'll show you how this works and I'll do
it live with you. Tell me a little bit
about what you give me context. What do
you do? Who do you do it for? Video
editing agency. We just do video editing
like for YouTube, social media, like
documents. Tell me like what's changed
in your business? What do what is it
that's u the reason why we're having
conversation today? Uh I can't generate
more leads. So when you say stuck, how
long have you been stuck? Six months.
Okay. You've been stuck for about 6
months. What do you suspect? What you
need to do is an action plan for for
what I need to do, what I need to talk
about if I need to grow my personal
brand to generate more. The ultimate
goal is for you to double your revenue.
And the path forward is probably to get
similar clients or clients like the ones
you're already having with some kind of
outreach program so that you can enhance
the number of leads you have. You should
be able to get this and I wrote the
notes. Okay, we got it. We're done. And
you notice how there's a lot of empty
spaces because it's not that
complicated. He's like, I want more
money. I want to make more money. And he
wants more money. It's easy. It's just
more money. If you were able just to
focus purely on manufacturing and not
see a loss in revenue, would you
consider just focusing on them? See how
easy that was? His fear was losing
revenue. So if you just remove it, if
this happened and that happened, would
you then? And he said, do you see the
change in language and body just if if
is a safe space to play with our
imagination, low commitment. And the the
weird thing is momentum is a good thing.
So I take a little half baby step in the
if, but then it's like I realize it's
not that scary. So I can take another
half step. I think before you know it,
they've agreed. So the insights to me
are number
one, if you could have recurring
revenue, do you feel like you would need
to generate as many leads? Because if
the clients consistently came back to
you, would that generate the money that
you want? Yeah. Or I don't Yeah. I mean,
because it's much harder to get a new
client than it is to keep a client. So I
suspect the creators who disappear
something is not working in your system
because I think they would want more.
Some of them do just give up on posting.
So then the insight would be you have to
find different creators who are just
already committed already successful
whereas paying you a couple thousand
bucks a month is a bargain. There's lots
of those. Where would you find some of
those people? Social media. No, you'd go
out there. It's the 1 billion summit.
Everybody here is a freaking content
creator, isn't it? Yes. They're
literally right here. I'm If I throw
this marker, I bet you'll hit a content
creator. Be introverted right. That's a
new problem. Okay. So, the insight is
he's scared and he's an introvert. The
solution for this is quite easy. Okay.
Believe it or not, there are tons of
creators out there who want exactly what
you do. You should do social media
editing for them and they'll pay you
thousands of dollars a month. They won't
even think about it and just give you
more work. And then you run it through
your system and you just do that. So, we
found some things. The creators he has
are not committed. They're not
successful yet. So, if we just switch to
finding successful creators, we could do
that. That's just one insight. But the
real insight is focus on your
manufacturing people because they pay
you more. And now we just need to find
more of them that want more of this at a
higher level and you'll do better.
That's what you need. So, if I were to
present to you a
plan that helped you to get more
manufacturing clients outside of
SEO, what would that be worth to you?
5k. 5k I guess for recurring revenue of
10k or more a month.
That sounds like a little off. Huh? If
you double, so you're doing 10k now and
you double. Well, let's do the math
together. It'd be 20k. It's 70% of which
Well, we'll just talk about the new 10k.
7k in profit a month times 12 is what?
84. Huh? 84. 84. The Asian in the room's
like 84, bro. 84. Yeah. So, you're going
to make $84,000 more a year and have a
system that does this and you just want
to spend how much? Is 10% good enough?
Well, I don't know. Would you be okay
with 10%? So, that would be $8,400. Yes.
Okay. I can tell you what. I could
probably come up with a plan for you for
less than that. Would you be interested
in that? Sure. Okay. Maybe 7,500. This
is great. like she was very willing to
give you this information. So like let's
say Graham was calling Chris asking me
all these questions. It's a very natural
thing and you're going to do this and
you have the exact same problem. You're
going to come back and say what a jip.
This is just totally like this never
works. Not it doesn't work in real life.
Right? Here's the thing. At any point
here there could have been friction and
there wasn't because it's a
conversational thing that we escalated
or uh scaffold towards the things that
we needed to know. I didn't just go into
what can you spend bro? What's your
budget? How much money do you make? And
that's how you guys ask that question.
That's the problem. You haven't built
trust. You haven't demonstrated that you
understand how businesses work. So why
would I give you any of that
information? A smart business person Mo
knows that by talking to another smart
business person and being clear and
transparent is only going to help him.
And if he doesn't do that, it's going to
hurt him.
The problem is most of you fake this
conversation only to find out this
number and you go for the throat and
they feel it too. So what I'm going to
tell you to do is try your best to have
your conversation as naturally as
possible and you'll see you'll land it
somewhere close to where we landed. This
just takes practice. Okay? So today I
feel like we're playing um basketball. I
taught you how to dribble, how to do
like a pass, and how to shoot. That
doesn't mean you're going to be an NBA
player, but it does mean you know the
foundational things, but with enough
practice, with confidence, you'll start
to get better and better at this. You
want to go deeper than this video, be
sure to join our patron membership here
on YouTube to unlock exclusive
membersonly content. Watch full-length
videos like this, unreleased trainings
and workshops, content that people have
paid thousands of dollars or more to
attend, available exclusively only here
on YouTube.