We really wanted to create and not
motion because we want to be in control
of our destiny. In the past, it was a
lot about spray and prayer. You know,
really working on high volume of leads.
Now we try to really improve the quality
of the outreach. What makes the
difference between List and other
platform that I use in the past is with
Lis we can feel that it has been built
by people who really understand the
prospection. Couple of months ago, we
had about 5% outbound and the total
pipeline. Today as we speak we are more
between 25 to 30% being able to connect
with the leads with my personal voice
and you recently added the instant voice
cleaning it's just amazing. If I would
have to describe List in one sentence I
would say that it's a platform for the
skateboard looking to build a pipeline
using the best tactics on the market at
the moment.
I'm Jan Shia leading the sales
development at 11. 11 is an AI research
company that deploy products like the
text to speech speech to text or
conversational AI. We are today the
leader in AI audio. My role is that I'm
in charge of sales development for 11
labs for the EMA region and my role is
to find the best opportunities on the
market.
Just in terms of structure, it's the
typical organization. So we have SDR BDR
and then we had account executive. there
is to close the the opportunities and we
had CSL to work on expansions and and
renewal. We try to have sees red for
every markets the key markets in the EMA
region and that's why we we were looking
to to get a new tool to really improve
our outbound strategy for for the
different markets
before I joined the company actually
were using multiple tools maybe too many
tools and the outbound strategy was a
lot about sending emails you know the
typical outbound motion the thing is we
also introduced a multi- channel like
LinkedIn and and cold calling And the
thing is it was a bit disjointed the way
we were doing that adding too many tools
it mean that you have to you know
reinvent the wheel all the time multiply
the sequences also you have a lack of
control you don't really know what the
Az are doing sometimes in terms of
sequences you don't really have the
knowledge so you can't really optimize
also so I would say lack of efficiency
also we we were coming from from a very
very important inbound motion it was it
was really incredible there was a strong
demand as you can imagine for for AI at
the moment. The thing is we know that in
bomb is is not predictable and you can
have a really good moment but sometimes
you can go dark and we really wanted to
to create and and not bomb motion
because we want to be in control of our
destiny first thing but also we want to
go after maybe bigger opportunities and
the third thing is we also want to go on
different of specific ICPS or
territories so better control with with
[Music]
I would say the first thing was so easy
to use. It's so easy to use compared to
other tools where you never know where
to click too many buttons. And we were
working on something easy to use. An
example, the sequence builder. It's very
visual, so you can really see how to how
to to to create your sequence. I love
this feature. Second thing is AB testing
everywhere. Something that I love. So,
thank you for building this. We can
really editize every part, but also the
sequence itself. So, great features. The
third thing is you are super innovative.
I mean every time when I connect to the
list there is a new feature also you are
great with with product feedback when we
we discuss with your team you are always
great and and you listen what we say so
that's that's excellent and I'm really
excited with the new AI features that
you just released
so we love to create AI variables super
useful to really personalize the content
the thing is you know the spray and cray
it's over but at the same time we need
to to get some volumes but we need to
really personalize so it's very useful
for us. It's one of the features that I
really like. Another feature in terms of
AI is of course the recent text to
speech the way to engage with the leads
with with my voice and we love that
because when you are 11 lads and you
know business is AI audio being able to
connect with the leads with my personal
voice and you recently added the instant
voice coding it's it's just amazing and
because LinkedIn is a key part of our
sequences we love this feature. So the
features were really I just said wow
it's a game changer. It was when I
started to receive so many messages from
my LinkedIn campaign on List I was just
blown away because wow started to work.
So was really impressed but also when
when when my team shared with me some
success I was okay it's not just me it's
also the team super successful with with
this. By the way I love the inbox the
labist inbox. So we use it because
sometimes it can be a bit overwhelming
on your on LinkedIn you know to to reply
to everything. So it's very useful.
Also, we have the AI rating, so we know
if it's a positive or negative. So we
know quickly how to how to reply. So
that's one of the the great success that
we have with with the Mist.
Couple of months ago, we had about 5%
outbound in the total pipeline. Today,
as we speak, we are more between 25 to
30% outbound in the total pipeline. So
we are definitely growing the DC subbond
motion. some examples in terms of
results that we we had so far with the
lemmings campaign with one of the
campaign for example we have about 71%
interaction I wish I would have the same
all the time with my ad campaigns and on
the 71% interaction we have 25% answers
so meaning that we had real conversation
with the with the leader prospect so
it's definitely better than what I had
in the past with other tours
actually it's quite funny because when I
was on my way to to come to your office.
I just received a Slack message from
someone in the team saying, "Hey, can
you get me a seat on on Lemlist?"
Because the thing is, you know, when
they see that some account executive or
LGR are successful prospecting with
Lemist, they just want to replicate
that. And because it's so easy to use at
the end, yeah, they just want to to get
access to that.
In the past it was it was a lot about
spray and prayer you know really working
on on a high volume of leads. Now we try
to engage with better ICP better buyer
persona and and really improve the
quality of the outreach and the reason
is very simple is we have a limited
number of emails we can send every day
just to protect deliverability but also
protect our LinkedIn recognition. So
that's why it's super important to
engage with the right people and to
provide value at every interaction. So
how do we do that? We blend this is we
warn the lead by visiting the profile
for example on day one then on day two
maybe we're going to send send LinkedIn
connection if it doesn't work I mean if
it's not accepted we can create you know
an alternative and contact them with
email. The goal is really to connect
with them on multi channel and all the
time create a value based interaction
making sure that we are offering
something on every messages. some recent
initiative that we we did at at 11 labs
we introduced the SD labs where
basically we are experimenting new
sequences new tactics and trying new
things all the all the times sometimes
doesn't work sometimes big success and
we try to improve and so so I would say
it's all about experimenting and you
know that what works today in three
months it will be different what I love
with lemist is you are also
experimenting a lot so we can experiment
together
try by yourself and you will get the
results and then you will see that it's
super easy to set up. What makes the
difference between Len and other
platform that I used in the past is with
Lis we can feel that it has been built
by people who really understand the
prospection really understand just by
the features and also the workflow. It's
simple it's powerful so makes a
difference. If I would have to describe
List in one sentence, I would say that
it's it's really the platform for for
the sales people looking to build a
pipeline easily using the best tactics
on the market at the moment. This is
what I would say.