Many of us feel like we're in a market
space where people don't value what we
do and it feels like we're commoditized.
And a lot of you have been taught or
have taught yourself some crazy rule in
the universe where if the market gets
tricky, the way you win clients is to do
what?
So when we lower our price, what does
the other person think if they lose the
business to you? They lower their price.
And what do you do? Lower your price.
And then before you know it, you pay the
client to do the work. How long can you
run a company when you pay the client to
do the work?
However much cash you have at the bank
and when that's done your credit card
and then you're done done. And I'm
reading this book implementing value
pricing. It's written by Ronald Baker.
Highly recommend you read this book if
you want to be a master of pricing. And
he says in in the book, there is no such
thing as a commodity. You just lack
imagination. You lack imagination. And
he gives a couple examples that will
blow your mind. So in the example, he
talks about like like a head of lettuce
or cabbage or something which you buy at
the supermarket, right? You go in there
and basically one head of lettuce is the
same as another head of lettuce if it's
organic, if it's fresh. You don't buy
one that's necessarily more expensive if
you can't see the difference, right? And
so you might be thinking,
I can't differentiate what I do from a
competitor. I'm like the head of
lettuce. they just buy the cheapest one
because they can't see one design firm
versus the next, one marketing firm
versus the next, right? And he says,
"So, let's apply a little imagination
here." So, I don't know if you've
noticed, but people have started to sell
handle leaf pre-washed, triple rinsed
bags of lettuce. How much is that? So,
one head of lettuce, that's the cheapest
version of it. But applying a little
creativity and labor, you make it more
convenient. My wife buys the bags. I buy
the bags because I just grab it, throw
it in a bowl, and I can eat it. Okay?
And this is going to hint at an idea in
a little bit. So, that bag of lettuce
goes for more money than the head. And
if you take the head and you split up to
two or three things, you can sell three
bags for four times as much money.
Everybody follow so far? And you're
like, "Okay, that's it. That's pretty
cool." And then what they do is
somebody's like, "You know what? If we
put the like, why do people even want
lettuce in the first place? Why do
people buy lettuce?
Make a salad.
Make a salad. You want a salad? So,
like, why don't we throw in some
croutons, a little cheese on it, and
have a package of dressing and now
instead of charging you, you know, 79
cents for a head of lettuce, we're going
to charge you $12. And they're like,
well, why would people buy this one?
Well, let's go license Wolf Gang Puck
and call it Puck Express and put that
sticker on it and say, you know, it's
Wolf Gang's dressing
and let's sell that for $14.
And so you kind of have to and it
doesn't end. It can just go into
infinity if you want, right? Because in
Japan, anybody been to Japan before? Do
you ever go to a supermarket? They have
like $150 cantaloupe.
I don't know what that canop tastes
like, but it better be good.
So I understand that these are like
lovingly cared by Japanese farmers. I
don't know what they're doing. They're
talking to it at night. They're like
telling bedtime stories. I don't know.
But it is $150 cantaloupe. I don't get
it. So there is no limit to what you can
charge. It's just you have to say and
you have to come to terms. I lack the
imagination to describe this. Okay. And
let's take it further. He says, "Can
anything be more a commodity than
money?" Like who here would buy $1 from
me for $110?
Even 101. Would you even buy a dollar
from me for 101? No. Because the face
value is $1. He goes, "You lack
imagination.
You got to sign it."
Huh?
Sign it.
I could sign it. You're right. So now
you're using a little creativity, right?
Okay.
Now he's like, "A stock certificate or a
stock, you know, you buy it has a price.
It goes up and down." He says, "There's
a company that charges you more for a
stock than you could buy in the market."
And who would who would do that? So
here's what they figured out.
They found that there are grandparents
who want to give their grandchildren
something for their birthday, be
mitzvah, for Christmas, whatever it is,
and they want to be able to print the
certificate of the stock and frame it,
and they sell the stock for more than
what it's worth. Now, the company only
buys blue chip stock like Disney, like
Apple, whatever. So, the stock might be
$99
at that day, but they're going to sell
it to you for between $150 to $250
depending on the quality of the frame.
Is that amazing? A total commodity
that has no real value
other than the value of what what it
represents in the market. By using a
little bit of imagination,
they can charge a lot more. Now, this is
the part that's going to hurt your soul
a little bit. Ask yourself, do you lack
imagination?
Okay. Now, why would people pay more for
something than they need to? Why? Well,
there's an answer. It's because if it's
immediate, like we pay more for things
if we can get the results immediately,
right? I bought a salad, I got to handle
leaf, if I got to wash it, I got to spin
it dry. That takes time. So, time to
purchase to my mouth. Make it faster.
I'll pay you more. Right now, Alex
Herozi, who writes the uh who wrote the
book $100 million offer, also another
book you probably need to pick up. I
will be teaching lots of concepts from
this. If you like the concepts that I'm
sharing with you today, I highly
encourage you to support the authors.
I'm not trying to take money from
people. Please buy the books and support
them. So, as often as I can, I will
mention who they are and we'll repeat
it. Okay. Alex Ramosi talks about this.
So, there is pain that we feel and we
want to get the solution as fast as
possible. So, if you look at like um
like meditation,
it's going to take time to practice to
learn. It's a whole thing. And you want
to clear your mind, right? Or you can
take is it Prozac and you can get that
instantly. So if you're you're a
meditation teacher, you run meditation
workshops, maybe that entire industry is
worth $100 million where Prozac is a
multi-billion dollar industry because
the time to result is short and it's
guaranteed. So there's two variables and
I'll talk about this more later is time
delay which will influence price and
certainty of outcome. If I meditate I I
get distracted. I'm not sure. Does this
work? I don't believe in it. It takes a
really long time to master. Right? Some
somebody can do it in a second. Somebody
will take three hours to do it. But the
Prozac will put you in that happy state
really fast. It's guaranteed. So when
you think about your product, your
service, or whatever it is that you're
doing, try to reduce the time to
satisfaction and completion and try to
increase the certainty of the outcome
happening. Now, if you put yourself in
everyday life, every time somebody gives
you a money back guarantee, you're more
likely to buy because the certainty of
outcome is there. But if you're going to
do a guarantee, there has to be a way
for you to do it so you don't get
killed. But think about that. And every
time I've had a client who's going to
spend a couple hundred,000 with us sit
on the fence like, "Oh, I'm not sure,
Chris." And we've done everything we can
to convince them. The last thing I do is
I throw in the guarantee. And every time
I've done that, I've done it twice, they
close. So, use it wisely. Use it for the
right moment. not to get the job, but to
secure it. And there's a difference.
[Music]