Hey guys, this is how to get video
production or photography clients with
Instagram DM. I've got to do a bunch of
outreach for my own agency today. So, I
thought I might as well share this with
you and show you some strategies on how
we use Instagram DM to drive more sales
to our business. So, the first point is
always focusing on a niche or a
particular industry that we're going to
go after. The reason for that is because
when we are sending out messages, we
want to keep it as easy as possible for
you and not having to think of something
new to say every time. And when you're
jumping around in industries, that can
often happen. I've just typed in solar
because we've got quite a few solar
clients at the moment. And the first
thing that's come up is this solar event
that's happening here in the UK. Now,
events are really good to go after on
Instagram because if you go to
followers, the people who are following
that event are likely to be ideal
customers of that particular niche and
therefore there's a huge potential for
them to be ideal customers for you too.
And as you can see here, the people
following them, there's loads of people
in the kind of solar industry. So, we're
going to go after them. Now, effectively
what we're doing at this point of the
process is what's called lead generation
when we're just trying to get loads of
data of people that we can outreach to.
Now, I'm obviously doing this on the
fly, but there's a few other ways that
you can do this. You can use online um
AI tools like Phantom Buster. You could
also pay someone on Fiverr on online
jobs to create a whole lead list for
you. So, they'll pull it into um an
Excel spreadsheet. You can just go
through and click them. It will open up
their profiles and all the relevant
contact information so that you can get
in touch with that person. I'm going to
show you the slightly longer way because
I appreciate that some of you might not
have the money to invest into those
platforms. So, both ways are effective.
One just provides a bit more volume at a
much quicker pace than than the way that
I'm showing you now. Nonetheless, let's
take this uh ETJ renewables. If we click
onto them and then we click on the
follow
button sometimes or okay, it depends if
it's a business page or non business
page. I'll try and find one that's
potentially non. So, if I go to these
guys for instance, AB Energy, I was
following them from earlier. You can
click on this button here to the side.
You can see suggested accounts and it's
just another way to again find loads of
accounts that are in the similar sort of
industry that you're going after to
begin with. Sometimes when you follow
people on Instagram as well, it will
come up with like why not look at these
accounts. Then you can just go through
make note of them, follow them, apply
the same strategies I'm about to show
you on each of those two. But what I'm
going to do is I'm just going to go back
for the moment to these guys. I'm going
to go through first of all just take a
look at their website as well. So the
first thing I'm trying to get an
understanding of is do they already have
video content? And for you, if you're
videography or photography or video
editing, it's just doing a bit of a
background check first, right? If
they've got loads of amazing images,
then you're going to probably tailor
your your message a little bit
differently to uh someone who doesn't
have anything. And I mean, these guys
have obviously got a couple of photos.
Looks like they're just done using maybe
an iPhone, maybe some stock footage. No
videos whatsoever. Let's have a quick
look at their
gallery. Yeah, again, really, really
boring. So, they're not doing a great
job here at like really separating
themselves from the rest of the
industry. Yeah. Okay. So, pretty
standard, very basic website. Their
social media looks okay.
Um, yeah, kind of a mix. I mean, they
are posting uh fairly regularly as well.
So, maybe these guys just uh they they
have a problem with posting regularly.
Maybe they're just doing it themselves.
Unlikely they've got a marketing
department or they just don't know how
um this can have an impact on their
business. Now, of course, they do have
contact information on here, which we
could go through and call them, but what
we're going to try and do is we're going
to use a uh DM um outreach strategy
today. So, I'm going to click on
message. And this is where you have to
be mindful that when we send a message,
it's going to go straight through to
their message requests folder. It's not
going to go through to their inbox. So,
what I would suggest with this is if you
follow the page, you interact with a few
of their posts, and then send them a
message, they're much more likely to
pick it up. And there's a few different
strategies that you can use here and
I'll talk you through them before I show
you the one that I'm going to choose
today. So, first of all, we might want
to ask them some information about their
business. So, it might be like, "Hey
guys, I can see you're in renewable
sector. Do you do battery storage as
well as solar?" Kind of like presenting
it as an a opportunity for them might be
some business. So, they're going to pick
up on that and be like, "Okay, well,
I'll entertain this cuz there might be
some work for us in this." And then say
like, "Yes, yeah, we also do that as
well." I say, "Okay, that's awesome.
we've worked with a few guys recently
like your business. This is what we've
managed to produce for them. Would you
be interested in having a conversation
to to help you drive more sales or
whatever you think their goal is going
to be? Because all of these
conversations around sales and this is a
running theme on this channel. It's
never about what you're selling in terms
of photography or videography. It's
about selling the solution to their
problem. Is their main goal of their
business to drive more sales? Probably.
What's the challenge stopping them from
doing that at the moment? Maybe it's the
fact that people don't know they exist.
Maybe they just do it by word of mouth
at the moment. What is that reason? And
if we can really tap on to that, and
that's why having a niche is important
because you'll understand it much
quicker cuz you'll be like, "Oh yeah,
we've seen this happen time and time
again. I know exactly how to help you in
your business." That's where a niche
becomes really important. But sometimes
when you're starting out, you have a
diverse portfolio. There's nothing wrong
with that. We made a few hundred
thousand before we even got to a point
of niching down. So, I would suggest
that like just focus on one area to do
all of your sales process in a day is
going to be really a key thing to help
you better understand them. And also, it
means you're not saying different stuff
all the time. What I'm actually going to
do with this is, and we want to again do
anything possible to get them to move
from the message requests folder over to
their inbox. And I normally find the
best way of doing this is either a voice
note or sending them a photo and saying
like, "Hey, we've recently done this or
I've just seen your competitor do this.
I think we can do something better."
However, to spark that attention or the
way I'm actually going to do is through
a video because there's nothing that can
replace that kind of like me being on
camera. Hey, I'm Ross. Nice to meet you.
I've just taken a look at your page. You
actually came up as a a suggested
account. We've done a lot of work in
this sector. This is what we do. And uh
well, rather than just telling you this,
let's give it a go. Now, don't worry as
well if this goes wrong because you can
always just stop and do another one.
Like, when you get into a flow, you'll
be able to absolutely like smash these
out. But I haven't done one of these in
a while. So, um, I'm going to just, uh,
yeah, give it my best shot. So, here we
go. Hey guys, hope you're keeping well.
My name is Ross and I run a video
marketing agency. No, I don't want to
say that. I don't want to get straight
in there with it. Discard that and let's
start again. And this is the thing,
right? You can go wrong, you can pick
back up on it. I basically just want to
get to the point. I just come across
your channel. What I just told you guys
a minute ago, you know what happens as
soon as you start recording, the nerves
come out. Hey guys, I hope you're
keeping well. I just came across your
um, channel
and Okay, this could be this could be a
long one to kick the day off. Hey guys,
I hope you're keeping well. My name is
Ross. I just came across your profile
because Instagram suggested that I
follow you guys. Uh, mainly because we
do a lot of work in the sector. So, I
just wondered if you were open to having
a conversation because when I had a look
at your website, I was completely amazed
that there was no video content on there
whatsoever. Video content is like one of
the most key ways to drive more
inquiries cuz when people go and check
out your website or they look at your
social media, they need that thing to
kind of push them through to that next
step. and photos alone don't always do
the best job of doing that. So, what we
do is we create content that drives
those conversions, pushes more sales.
Like we said, we've worked with loads of
businesses just like yours. So, I just
wondered if you're open to kind of like
a 15, 20 minute chat. I can share some
value, some places on the website and
types of videos that I know would be
valuable for you. Absolutely no
obligation. Would just love the
opportunity to see if that's something
you're interested in. Anyway, take care
guys. Look forward to hearing from you.
Great. We can refine that more and more.
And by the way, I've thrown some shade
on photography there because they're
already doing some photography. If I was
a photographer, then what I'd be doing
is I'd be probably going down a slightly
different route and being like, "Hey,
yeah, we do lots of photography in this
sector. We've really helped drive more
engagement. Nothing builds like
emotional connection like good
photography, you know, whatever whatever
that looks like. It's about your
business and where you think you can
provide some value." I'm just going to
run with that at the moment. I'm going
to click send on that as well. So, send
them a video. We'll just leave it as a
video for the time being. If I don't
hear anything, then I might follow up
with them and send them a message just
something like, "Hey guys, did you get
chance to watch the video above? Let me
know what you think." Something like
that. If I don't hear again, then I
might comment on one of those posts just
to say next time they post something and
it pops up on my feed, I'm just going to
say like, "Yep, hey guys, I just dropped
you a DM. Would you mind checking it
out? Um, look forward to, you know,
speaking with you or something like
that." Okay, great. So, more on my roll.
I'll do another one because I don't
always use exactly the same thing. I
just let it flow. I let whatever comes
out and I kind of like just by looking
at their page and looking at that
business try and work out like okay
where can I provide some value here
what's going to make them tick where can
I really try and like drive that
response more importantly let me just
pick another one let's go to this AB
energy one that we looked at earlier on
as well so same thing just going to do a
bit of due diligence they're not in this
country so that's fine just going to
move on to the next one then um smart
carbon market again not in this country
this is the thing by the way as well
this is where actually paying for
someone to do some lead generation for
you is going to be really effective cuz
it's going to save you a whole bunch of
time. Not that this takes too long, but
you start to get an idea. Solar
supplier. So, they're a supplier. Um,
let's go through here as well. So, I can
obviously go through Instagram, by the
way, and then just kind of search UK.
So, these guys are based around London.
Um, electrical and mechanical
contractors. I'm guessing they're
following that because they do um solar
as well. So, again, bit of due
diligence. Let's have a little look
here. Videos aren't getting too much.
Let's see what their videos look like.
Okay.
boring.
Uh bit more creative, but you have to
ask yourself as well, and this is where
businesses go wrong, is does this appeal
to me as a
customer? Don't know cuz businesses like
do what they think looks good, but it's
never about your business. It's always
about the customer. They've got some
they've got some interesting projects
though. At least that's the main thing.
How regular are they posting? Yeah, semi
semi-regular as well. Great. Okay,
fantastic. Let's have a quick look at
their website. Great. Cool. banner video
will look really nice on that page
there. No other video content. Again,
don't want to spend loads of time here,
but I just want to make sure I'm going
to provide them with some value. And I'm
not going to say something that um
they're already doing. So, services was
key. So, domestic commercial, renewable
tech. So, yep, great stuff. So, solar um
solar panel, solar PV, battery storage,
lighting. Let's go with these guys then.
So, um first of all, let's give them a
follow and let's go with another video.
See how many takes this takes. I still
get nervous by the way. Every video I
do, I still get a little bit nervous
because I'm like, I really want this to
come across well. And that's just with
practice as well. And that, you know,
the challenge of running a business is
that you're doing some filming, you're
doing some editing, you're running a
team, etc., and then like you still have
to do sales. Um, but yeah, it's just cuz
you're a little bit out of practice. Hey
guys, hope you're keeping well. You
actually just came up on my Instagram um
recommended because we do a lot of work
with a lot of electricians and solar and
building contractors, etc. So, I
suggest Okie dokie. Hey guys, I hope
you're keeping well. You actually came
up as a suggested profile to follow um
on Instagram. I guess that's because we
do a lot of work um in this sector. So,
a lot of uh solar and and building and
and trades people, etc. I just wondered
if you guys were open for a chat because
when I looked at your website, I was
super surprised that there was no video
content on there whatsoever. I know
you've got a couple of kind of Instagram
videos that are kind of like semi-a
uh page, but look, we sit as a video
production company. We help trades
people, construction people, done a lot
with solar to drive some real good
results. And what we do is really about
creating content that's going to drive
you more inquiries. And there's some key
videos that sit on your website that
will be able to do that. Because
ultimately, if people go onto your
website and you look the same as
everyone else, every other solar
business that they've been looking at or
building contractor, etc., then there's
nothing that separates you from the rest
and that's when they shop around. So if
you're open to having a chat, I'd love
that opportunity. I'll provide some free
value. No obligation whatsoever, but it
would just be good to have a talk. Love
it. I had to wrap that up pretty quickly
just before it timed out. Great stuff.
So I'm just going to send that over to
them. And again, same process before
with just following up. And you see how
that time I took a slightly different
route. I feel like starting to get into
the groove of it, starting to really
think about their business, where we
could potentially help, and just
adapting it slightly. Yes, that's taken
me a little bit longer, maybe about 15
20 minutes as I've been explaining it to
you as well. But you could see how
within an hour I could easily smash off
like 20 of these and that's just
constantly, you know, spend half a day
doing that or a couple of hours in the
morning. That's loads of opportunities
that you've been able to reach out to
new businesses and do it in a really
unique way and play around with it. You
know, use some different multimedia. So
maybe send a voice note, send uh a
photo, send some text, do whatever that
will really help move it from that
requested folder into the DM folder as
well. Now, what you're going to want to
do is you're going to want to follow up
with these guys about every 2 days until
you get a yes or a no answer. And
remember, no is a great answer to have
because at least you know where you
stand with that business. The worst
thing is not having any response
whatsoever because now you're using more
of your time to continue to follow up
with them. Do that about every two days.
Normally within a message or two they'll
start to um reply with a yes or a no or
they're open to it just been busy. And
that's when you want to book them in for
a meeting. Get them in on 15 to 30
minute discovery call where you can
learn more about their business, ask
them some questions and ultimately close
them as a new client. I'm going to get
cracking with that now. I hope you found
this video useful. If you have, please
make sure you're subscribed. It tells us
we're doing a good job and it helps us
grow the channel so we can do more
videos like this. If there's anything
else you want to see, I'm open to
suggestions. So, make a note in the
comments below and we'll take a look at
them for next time. All the best.