Creative people are just funny like
this. Something great happens and we
don't want to do it again. Something
horrible happens and we refuse to
change. So like are we destined to
suffer all of our lives? When someone
feel desperate and have a fixated agenda
and chasing after the money, they end up
pushing away the sales even if the
client is right for them. Think of money
as a thank you note that the more thank
you notes you get, the more you know the
clients appreciate what you do. And who
here does not want to be appreciated? My
name is Victoria Dior Wang and you're
listening to the future.
Hey everybody, this episode's a little
bit different because I'm talking to my
friend Victoria Dior Wang, somebody I've
met recently earlier this year, first
time in Singapore and her and her
husband Harrison put together an amazing
event. They said, "Let's run it back.
Let's run it back again just days after
finishing." And so for those of you who
are like, "You were in Singapore? What?
What?" Okay, look, I asked you to come
to me, but sometimes I'll come to you.
I'll be in your time zone. And so, if
you're curious about the kinds of things
that we talk about, if you're curious
about wanting to learn more, I think
this episode's for you. So, without
further ado, I have asked Victoria to
kind of come at me with a bunch of
questions, especially to highlight some
of the belief systems that might persist
in that part of the world. and we're
we're going to do our best to break them
apart and hopefully answer those
questions. So, Victoria, for people who
don't know who you are, just briefly
tell us who your story. So, my name is
uh Victoria Dio and uh I'm the CEO of
the Gozone Group. One of my biggest
passion is education and one of our
business is to is a running educational
program and we create immersive learning
experiences to help leaders business
owners as well as a professionals to go
beyond success and live an extraordinary
life. So you can hear from my
introduction that's why we are we
resonate with Chris so much and we want
to bring him to Singapore. Yes. So
what's real interesting to me just for
some background context is people do
reach out to me all the time and said
hey come to our city come to our country
come let's do something
together and most of them are not super
credible most of them are not built to
accommodate me and to be able to do
whatever it is I need done and Victoria
to your credit and to Harrison who I
didn't know at the time you put together
a plan there's a spreadsheet everything
was above board and you said we're going
to do this super professionally and to
your credit you did exactly that you met
me at airport with flowers and a private
car. I'm like, uh, hey, this I feel like
I'm in Hawaii. There's a vacation here
and this feels a little bit different.
And from the beginning to the end, it
was uh first class all the way. And so,
you do things differently in Singapore.
That's for sure. And I think I didn't
have a whole lot of expectations coming
in, but leaving I was like, this is a
pretty cool place in the world. quite
unique in that there's like a highest
earning per capita oftentimes number
one, two or three in the world in terms
of education. I'm passionate about
education and it's awesome for me to go
to a place where people like to to learn
and to do
self-development. This might be my new
thing. I don't know. Singapore, let's
let's go. The interesting thing is what
my intention is to create an experience
so that you want to come back again and
again. I had a good time. Awesome. We
had a good time, right? We had a great
time. Let's let's let's kick it off. All
right. What are some of the things you
want to talk about? So, one of the first
thing I want to ask you is uh since we
are going to do personal branding and
sales workshop, which are the key things
and a lot of business owners and
professionals have a lot of challenge in
that area and I want to this the the
first question I'd like to ask you is
how does personal branding supercharge
conversational sales? And I say
conversational sales because it
differentiate you and many other people
would talk about sales. And why is this
the secret source most people might
overlook? Very good way to kick it off.
So we we'll talk about brand for a
second. Brand is the accelerant to
almost everything that you do. And
that's not to say that all brands are
created equally. So you and I both have
brands and everyone listening has a
brand. But not all of us are able to
leverage that brand to create
opportunities for us to make things move
faster. I'll give you an example, real
life example. A buddy of mine who is
putting together an event in Las Vegas,
which I'm involved in, he told me he's
89% tickets sold already for a thousand
person event. He said last year it would
have taken me another two months of
selling to close and finish this thing.
He thinks he'll be sold out in a week or
two. and he goes because every year his
brand becomes more powerful and he can
leverage it more. I think this is pretty
awesome. So he did one webinar that was
a multi-hour long webinar had a bunch of
guests on and he open up the doors and
people just streamed in and purchased
tickets and then he would then follow up
with a few people and retarget the
people who attended and the tickets are
almost sold out at this point and he was
just remarking this is possible because
of brand. So if you're an event
organizer, if you're have a coaching or
sales program and you want more people
to volunteer to join without having to
twist their arm, start to think about
how you show up in the world, whether
you give people an opportunity to
connect with you beyond the business
aspect and you'll start to
see that this is like the accelerant to
everything that you want. That's a very
great story about branding and I do
agree because when people recognize your
brand it makes it easier for them to
want to move towards you and it's very
hard when there's no branding and you're
right about the leverage because I think
people don't think about leverage as
much and in fact that's one of the
mindset that Asian and I believe to a
certain extent American Asian American
has a similar thing. We're so used to
working hard. We feel that working hard
is what gives us the value and we we
feel more worthwhile when we work hard
and having leverage seems to be uh
something that is not in people's top of
the mind. Yeah. I want to I want to say
something here. So we we know that
Singapore is a rich country and quite
brand conscious. If you go shopping in
Singapore, okay, everything's here and
what is happening here? And this is
something I want to talk to the
potential local listeners about, which
is why are we as Singaporeans,
Asian-Americans, expats, whatever, so
ready to give extra money to Western or
European brands over the local
alternative. It bothers me a little bit
that there aren't as many, not even
close, by a factor of 100 of Asian
brands that have translated into markets
outside their local market. We become
too compliant, too blend in, too much uh
too much desire to fit in that we just
don't stand out and we become frustrated
and we feel like we don't have a voice
because oh, I got to I got to cater to
the society. I got to cater to my
parents. I could cater to everyone else
except for myself. Since you're such a
welltraveled
person, have you seen somewhere in the
world where there's traditional Asian
cultures or culture and values that are
blended with western ideas in harmony?
Honestly, not much. I would say okay
probably American AsianAmerican head is
the closest but still very much indated
with Asian culture underlying uh the
driving I'm talking about what's really
driving us beneath the surface I think I
may have an answer to that question
which is Japan Japan all right you go to
Tokyo or Kyoto you'll see men wear
traditional kimonos and and suit dress
walking being in one of the most modern
cities in the world taking the subway
and I'm like, "Oh my god." And they're
wearing like traditional shoes too which
don't look that comfortable like those
wooden shoes
like so you're in a
metropolitan like fastmoving city and
you're bringing traditional values and
dress into it and so Japan is a really
great mix of tradition and modernity and
preserving culture and they're very good
at preserving culture. I don't know if
this is true, but in in in a time when
Japan is being modernized, they kicked
out all the Westerners and drove out all
the missionaries and said, you know
what, we need to preserve our culture
because we can see it slipping away. And
so for a period of time, Japan develops
in isolation with some trade with the
West. But it's kind of interesting how
they're able to hold on to so many
Japanese traditions and have done a
really good job up until recently about
exporting Japanese concepts. If you ask
a lot of young people in America, what
do you like? Manga, anime, and they'll
list all the things they like.
Transformers and robots, those are all
Japanese concepts, right? Japanese ideas
originally. And the most successful
comics now follow a very Japanese model
of developing storylines that don't take
issues but take years to play out. So I
think there's something really beautiful
and it's reference to soft power the
ability to influence culture. Currently
right now the country that has the most
soft power I think is Korea. K-pop
Kdrama everything K. So we we can see
that there is a
slow emergence of Asian influence that
will then be integrated into western
culture. Yeah, you're right. You're
right in terms of their, you know, how
they preserve the culture while still
being a very mon mo modernized city.
Like when I first went to Japan, I was
very surprised by how advanced their
technology is. In fact, like you say,
they are very self-contained. The
challenge with that isolation is that
they lose a lot of opportunities and
economy has been going down over the
years. So that's that's part of the
challenge of being too isolated while
trying to preserve themsel they are also
losing out to the rest of the world. The
question now is since you mentioned that
how do we help people understand if they
were to join us in the workshop we can
help them to blend in more of the both
so that they don't feel like they're
losing out. One of the biggest challenge
with a lot of people is the idea of
changing something really freaked them
out. If I go to a workshop, do I need to
change anything? Is that your experience
too? No. I would say don't show up. Uh
why go to a workshop and promise
yourself you'll learn nothing and change
nothing? Why? I mean, we'll take your
money, but I wouldn't show up. It's like
saying I'm going to go watch this new
movie, but I'm gonna keep my eyes
closed. Okay, that's one way to
experience it, but why would you do
that? When we go and seek out
instruction, coaching, mentoring,
tutoring, whatever it is that you're
seeking out, there's a future state that
we think we can achieve. And the only
reason why anybody does anything is
they're motivated to change. So sales is
about change management. So I'm trying
to help you go from where you are to
where you would like to be. So first and
foremost, you have to identify, do I
have a need? If you have no need, stay
home.
Additionally, if clients are electing to
pay you a premium, you get no push back.
They're they're they'll willingly wait
for you to be open and available so that
they can have the privilege of paying
you the most amount of money. And when
you introduce an idea, they're like,
"Yes, I love that." And what else? And
you get no push back on ideas. Well,
also stay home. Or maybe don't stay
home. Start a course, create a
conference, and teach people how you've
done this because this is amazing. So we
we say this, right? Creative people are
just funny like this. Something great
happens and we don't want to do it
again. Something horrible happens and we
refuse to change. So I'm like, are we
destined to suffer all of our lives? And
I do want to say this,
Victoria, I'm not a sales
professional. I've had zero sales
training. I've taken zero courses in
sales. I've gone to see zero gurus teach
me about sales. So, I have a little bit
tiny little bit of self-doubt when it
comes to am I the person to teach people
sales. I can get
customers. I can create content and
they're happy to seemingly pay me
whatever it is I ask for. What is it
that I know? So, I'm in Dubai and I'm
doing a talk on how to sell less and
close more clients. But I'm standing in
the lobby of the hotel and this
gentleman, older gentleman, walks over
to me. He goes, "Chris, didn't know who
you were. Sorry about that." I'm like,
"You don't need to be sorry. I don't
know who you are either. I'm not
apologizing." Goes, "I was at your
thing." I'm like, "Oh, okay. Cool." He
goes, "I've been doing sales training
for for two decades." I'm like, "Uh oh,
here it comes." He's going to say, "What
you say doesn't work. It won't work
here." He says, "I learned some new
things." And that was good. He said, "I
share that story with you because I find
it really fascinating that people who
are so-called quote unquote sales
training professional ninja
wizards teach sales in a way that I find
disagreeable, distasteful, and
dishonest."
And the reason why a lot of people,
especially creative folk, don't like
sales is because they've seen so many
bad examples, have been taught bad ways
of doing it, and they've kind of
resigned to say, "I don't want to do
this." And of course, if something is
grossing you out, creating that feeling
of ick and you keep doing it, well, it's
not going to turn out well because
you're holding on to negative feelings
about it. I think part of what gets us
jaded is uh you know a lot of the people
use very manipulative sales tactic just
to just to get their agenda met and we
are becoming more and more sophisticated
and we can tell we just can feel it and
and most of us don't want to be like
that so we become from jaded to costing
ourself and that's why your workshop
makes such a big difference in my
opinion and I can honestly say I'm a
sales veteran and I know exactly what me
I have been in sales and
entrepreneurship because in
entrepreneurship you're selling all the
time you're selling people why they
should do the the job why they should
you know uh whether we like it or not as
a leader even we need to sell people our
vision we need to sell our team our
vision so that they feel more engaged
with what we are doing and they can be
more productive and perform better and
then not to not to mention we need to
sell to our clients why they should
engage with us if there's a fit but
people get So resistance to the word
sales and this is the other part in
Asia. Uh I can say that for Singapore
and I believe that's probably applicable
to the rest of Asia too. Sales is deemed
as if someone gets a sales job or or go
into a sales profession is deemed as a
lower end kind of a profession because
you are not a lawyer, you're not a
doctor or you can't get a job. That's
why you you went to you go to sell
something. So there's a lot of you know
challenge with the word sales and how
it's how people uh look at it. Okay,
let's let's let's clarify here. If
you're an attorney, you're trying to get
a client. What are you doing?
I believe that's called sales. Yes. If
you do cosmetic dentistry
and you need to get clients, what are
you doing?
You need a coach. That's called sales.
Yes, exactly. If you're a coach and you
want to help people be better partners
to their spouses or wherever or their
children, what are you doing? I believe
that's called
sales. So, I think sales has a bad rap
because there are so many poor
practitioners, poor examples. the Wolf
of Wall Street, all all these kinds of
the Jordan Belelfforts of the world,
kind of like sleazy, cheating people out
of their retirement, those kinds of
things. And we think sales, we think of
used car salesperson, we think of time
share salespeople, telemarketers
bothering us while we're trying to have
dinner with our
family. Yeah, if that's sales, it
deserves all the spit and fire that it's
getting. But we're all in the same
business. And sales is about influence.
Sales is about transference of energy. A
friend of mine and an art center
professor, his name is Errol Garrison.
He said something like this. He believes
sales is I'm excited about something. My
job is to see if you're excited about
the same thing. And if you are, then we
could do business together. But if we're
not, then I'm I'm happy to go my way.
Part ways, and we're good. I love that.
The problem is when we do it as a third
party neutral objective observer, I have
nothing to gain from this. I'm just
telling you about a great restaurant, a
hotel, car service. And since I have no
horse in this race, I can fullthroatedly
say it objectively because there's no
self-interest
involved. when we when we flip it and
it's like, "Oh, I I do logo design and
if I fullthroatedly express what I think
it's going to do for you, oh that's
distasteful. That's like so
self-centered." And there's a reason
why. What we need to
do is to have one conversation, not two
conversations. So, when we talk about
third party, we speak about it very
objectively. We ask great questions. We
listen to what the other person wants.
And only if they're interested in eating
a certain type of food or seeing a
certain type of site would we then
recommend something to them because
there's no point in us telling them you
must visit this place where we're like
you know what I'm tired I don't really
want to see any tourist straps I'm good
and what we do is we switch gears and we
go into selling pitching justifying mode
and having an agenda but if we adopt the
first mindset and have only one kind of
conversation not two kinds which is I'm
curious what you're interested in where
are you in your business. What do you
need help with? What have you tried and
failed? Who has wronged you? What
outcome would you like? Oh my gosh, it
just so happens that what you want is
something that I potentially could
provide to you. And then it's a marriage
of a want with a solution. But we never
do it this way. And we watch people
crash and burn all the time, Victoria.
Yes. They go up on stage, they pitch
each other, and they're just going back
to the old what's in it for me mindset.
And we're trying to break that. We're
trying to change that. 100%. Yeah. That
what's that's uh the what in what's in
in it for me mindset is what Yeah.
create a lot of challenges for people.
And I thought, you know, a lot of the
roleplay you do in the workshop really
makes a difference to bring that
awareness up. like someone from the
workshop uh did a really great carousel
and talk about how what he thought about
sales was so different uh he really
shifted the mindset around what's in the
way of his sales result uh before the
workshop versus after the workshop and
the what's in it for me when you feel
desperate that's the worst that really
uh cost a lot of people when someone
feel desperate and and have a fixated
agenda vender and chasing after the
money, they end up pushing away the
sales even if there's a right fit, even
if the client is right for them. That's
right. I want to go back to a question
that you brought up earlier about
cultural differences, east and west.
Now, I was born in Vietnam, but I grew
up in America. English is my second
language. I know some people are
bothered when I say it, but it's
literally true. And I I struggled for
some period of my life pronouncing
polyelabic
words, multiple syllable words because
Vietnamese language is single syllable.
That's why it sounds so
choppy. And I've I grew up in America as
a first generation immigrant refugee. So
I still have deep ties and and
connection to my culture, my original
culture, while having the benefit of
being raised in America and seeing this
the the kind of Socrates approach to
life, exceptionalism, individualism,
understanding ego, and what drives me.
So I straddle two worlds. I'm not saying
I'm the only, but I'm one of the few who
can come in and be a day walker. That's
a reference to Blade. What I'm able to
do, I think, is to
understand Asian
culture, our habits, our routines, our
need to be respectful while also
bringing in western concepts,
in-your-face kind of style, teaching,
uh, putting people in the spotlight a
little bit and blending these two
things. And I think what I enjoyed so
much about our time together in the
workshop, Victoria, was I was given time
and space to be the meanest me I could
be. And to me, that is pure joy. And if
if your teacher, your instructor's
having a good time, there's a chance,
not a guarantee, that you'll have a good
time. And what what better way to learn
than than to have a good time. If I'm
doing my job correctly, you'll look up
and you'll look down and you'll realize
eight hours are gone. I'll make it fun.
Hopefully, I'll make you laugh. You're
either going to laugh with me or people
are laughing at you, but there will be
some laughter. And I like that part. I
like that we can play, we can push, and
we can pull and we can straddle that
line between east and west, traditional
and modern. I I think I'm able to do
that, but you'll have to be the judge.
Well, I can attest to that. Yeah, it's
true. And that's why you get that's why
you have a lot of Asian fans and
followers who are really inspired by you
uh to be an Asian and yes, you're Asian
America, but you are still Asian and to
stand out in the world stage is really
very hard, very tough for Asian
community. And to address your one of
your question that you or one of the
comment that you made about why are we
so um why do we put podesta on western
branding? Yeah. Yeah. I think it's quite
I think it's a it's part of what well
you know I like to say to my Asian
friends that one thing about American is
that you guys are really great at
marketing. Whether you're confident in
I'm talking in general, right? Whether
you're confident or not, you can market
yourself so well. The opposite is true
for Asian. So we are human being and I
believe from my experience is that we
tend to buy into the surface stuff that
as long as it's popular, it looks good.
If everybody else like it, it must be
good. Which I don't think is true all
the time. But that's how we are. That's
our default. We we are more geared
towards popular uh popularity and any
pop anything popular we listen to it so
we put more attention to it and the
challenge with
Asian is that we can do a lot of good
work but we have such a hard time
marketing ourself and promoting ourself
and that's the part that I feel that we
can blend in with more of the western
culture where by feeling more
comfortable in sharing of ourselves
and and with no shame. So shame is a big
cultural problem from confusions that we
are being shamed into doing a lot of
things that the shame end up costing us
in other area that where we can excel
but you know we are human being we are
one we are a whole person. We can't have
shame in one area and not have shame in
another area. So promoting ourself is
like a big taboo. Would you agree with
that? Hey, we have a couple thousand
years of Confucianism to unpack here.
Yeah. So, how much time do we have for
this podcast? And how long is the
workshop again? Okay, but here's the
cool part. The minute you decide you
don't want to do anything or do it the
same way before is the minute your life
can change. My life has been full of
moments like that where the road or my
lifeline branches like that sacred
timeline in the multiverse. It branched
and I chose the branch that was most
optimal for me. So, can you unpack 2,000
years of
Confucianism in a day? And the answer is
it depends. And you're like, what does
it depend on? Well, it depends on that
person that you see every day, twice a
day, the person who looks back at you in
the mirror. It depends on you. You know
I wanted to say that more people need to
go through the same process as you
because it is through that process that
we ask ourselves those question do I
want my future to look the same no and
the people who say no are the people who
will take action on the other hand the
people who give up are the people who
just don't do anything there's a scene
in goodwill hunting so when Robin
Williams says to Matt Damon's character
It's not your fault. Yes, I know. It's
not your fault. I know. It's not your
fault. I know it's not your
fault. You might It's one of those
moments with me where I look you in the
eye and I'll say, "You're enough." And
you'll say, "I
know. You're enough. I
know you're enough.
So I I I I jokingly say I know
everybody's about creating safe space. I
create unsafe space because in the
unsafe space there's friction, there's
tension and I don't know another way to
make a diamond diamonds are made under a
lot of pressure and heat. I agree. It
takes tension and pressure to change.
And can I say just from my point of view
even though you say it's an it takes
unsafe space but what you are doing is
actually very safe. The reason why it's
safe is because it might feel the
feeling might be, oh no, I got to go
through this. Oh, Chris is gonna roast
me, which is, you know, we people like
to y your followers like to joke about
that. They love it by the love that you
roast them. So, it's not a it's not a
negative anyway. And they also know that
because of what you do, because of how
you do it, they get to transform. And it
is through the tension that people
transform. Nothing happen if there's no
tension. Too comfortable. That's why
learning online has a problem. They are
too comfortable. They're just listening
passively. Uh there's no real change
because there's no tension. No one
challenged them. And in my experience,
my biggest transformation come when
someone challenge me because it breaks
me out of my I call that it's like a
zombie mode where I keep doing the same
thing and I thought that I should know
I'm doing it right. Why is it not
happening? Why am I not why am I not
getting the result I'm getting? And it's
a little bit like a I don't know how to
describe that. It's like I'm being
trapped in my own ego of thinking that I
know but I'm just not getting it and I
can't change it until someone come and
challenge me and I suddenly it's like a
wakeup call for me and that's what you I
feel that that's what you do with people
that uh that scramble them so that they
they are not in their default mode. It's
our default mode that's the problem and
that's why they keep getting the same
results and they can't be challenged
online. You can't they can't they can't
get that online. I mean, if you can go
get it.
There are people who I'm not I'm not
here to prescribe to anybody what's
going to work, what's not going to work.
I I almost think it's better that people
go to workshops or try things online
with lots of different people so that
when they experience something that we
bring to the table, they'll have a point
of reference. I heard this from
somebody. I would like to coach people
who have been coached before, not
someone who's never gone to see a coach,
because they'll know the difference.
They can see it and they can feel it and
they'll be able to say, "Oh, the last
coach I talked to didn't say any of
this, who wasn't doing any of this." And
so I'm I'm kind of a little bit more
bought in in this moment. Whereas a
person who's never been coached, never
gone to workshop, never worked on
themselves, never got any kind of
training, they were like, "Oh yeah, how
everything works." I'm like, "Let me
tell you, it's not not true." Harrison
said this after the event. It's like
there's no
pitch. You know, a what people don't
understand is people invite you to go to
a workshop and the reason why they want
you to go to the workshop is because
they have some exclusive mastermind and
then you go to exclusive mastermind then
they have a platinum 101 program and
then after that they have another
program. So it seems like they're just
designed to extract more and more money
from you versus creating more value for
you.
I I I take what I do very seriously even
though how I do it is not at all which
is you've placed a certain amount of
trust in in us made a commitment and I
need to honor that as a teacher first
and foremost so I want to make sure that
you're having a good time that's
important to me I want to make sure that
there are things that you you want to
get resolved in your life and to learn
relative to the subject that we're
teaching
to to make progress. Maybe it won't be
perfect, but you're going to make
progress. And to walk away saying to
yourself, I enjoyed my time. I learned
something and I can apply something
moving forward that it's going to have
material impact on my life and in my
business. That's the first order, first
principles, whatever we want to call it,
I got to make sure of that. And outside
of that, everything else is good. And
that's one of the main reason why we
decided to work with you. We that's why
we want to bring you to Singapore
because we are very very aligned with
how you do that. We don't like pitch two
and we know because we have been in
education industry for a long time close
to 30 years and there are so many
workshops or program out there that
really that do that every sing they even
do it during break time before after and
it's just it's just
distasteful and that's the part that
makes it unsafe because I'm supposed to
I just paid money to come here and learn
so that I can uh apply what I learned to
get the out. But here you are. Every
single session you are trying to pitch
me the next thing. And how am I supposed
to feel safe to open up myself to learn
the real stuff? Yeah. Where else do we
go with this conversation? I want to
talk about value. What makes this
experience in Singapore command a
premium? And why are people still saying
it's worth every single scent? It's hard
for me to tell you why it's worth
whatever you're going to pay. And it's
because in in alignment with the things
I try and teach you, it's not my job to
prove to you, to justify as to what the
value is. The price is the price. If you
feel like if you got some of your
problem solved, if you can capture that
value back, that's on you. Like when I
read a book, books are in general here
in America about $30 each. Some are a
lot cheaper, some are a little bit more,
but on average, I think it's about $30.
Every time I read a book, I think I can
make 30 grand. And that's conservative
in terms of the investment. So you see
all these books behind me, if I were to
read and be able to apply and teach all
the things I've learned in my life, I'd
be sitting on a giant mountain of money.
And so when we go to workshops and when
we hire a coach and a consultant, my
number one question is, will I be able
to turn this into value for me? I think
Jim Ran said something like this that
wealth is, and I'm modifying it a little
bit. Wealth is your ability to convert
knowledge and experience it in into
capital. I can become wealthy if I can
take what I've learned and convert it
into some kind of capital or currency or
something else. And that's what I do. So
I've read the book so you don't have to.
And if you want to read all the books
and learn the way I learn, go do that.
It's a lot cheaper. But if you want to
do it through the lens of someone who's
applied it and sort of figured it out
and can share in those experiences to
create a fun dynamic learning experience
and you think I'm the person to do it
for you, then I'd be happy to be your
teacher and your guide for all of this.
Not someone else will be or no one will
be. That's up to you. I'm not overly
invested in convincing you to come to
this thing.
Now the best person to answer that
question are people who have come to the
workshop who can say here's what I got
from it here's why I would come back and
here's why I want more. Well I know you
have a no convincing policy so do we.
It's not up to us to convince people and
I would say that you know at the end of
the day like you say they have to decide
for themsel what value and what return
do they want for themsel if they were to
join us and what are they willing to the
price they're willing to pay and yes
it's an investment it's an investment in
oneself but it's really not up to us to
decide and we are confident that we are
going to do the best job it's perfect
okay so imagine that you show up to a
Mercedes
dealership and we see the S-Class and
America S-Class is probably between 80
to 120ish K depending on what you add to
it, right? Maybe a little bit more. I'm
not sure. And you walk into the
dealership like, why should I pay this?
Why is it worth this much? And if I were
running the dealership, I'm like, I
don't know. Tell me what brings you into
the dealership. We just have a
conversation about it there. It's not
their job to convince you at the point
in which you walk into the dealership to
say, "Why is this worth it?" Their job
is to tell you about a story about who
they are, what they stand for, and who
the customers are so that you make that
decision before you even walk into the
store. That's called branding
everybody. So, why are we teaching
branding and sales? Like, what do what
do these two things have to do with each
other? Well, everything, friend, because
if your brand is really strong, you
won't have to sell at all. Okay. I have
a question. Let's talk about money. You
know how a lot of people when it comes
to talking about money, they feel a
little bit awkward. Yes. And they feel
awkward, uncomfortable. Oh, you know,
what do I say? How do I say? How does
this experience help them turn talking
about money from something awkward into
something natural? and not to not just
natural they feel empowered. I think
money for a lot of people in a lot of
cultures dirties the conversation it
creates a lot of tension for us because
it takes something that's more
relational and turns into transactional
thing. But I think what money does it
takes away a lot of the ambiguity. I
heard Simon Synynic explain this and I
love his explanation of this. Like what
is money really? So we just rewind the
tape. I invite you over for dinner. I'll
cook and part of the bargain is you'll
do the dishes. I cook, you do the
dishes. Pretty fair, right? And this is
going been going on for some time. We're
cool. And then one day you're like,
"Hey, I have to run." I'm like, "Cool.
Um, I owe you." So, okay, I cooked and
I'll do the dishes. So, next time you
come over, it's like, "Let me make good
on that. I owe you. I will cook and also
do the dishes." And so, money has become
an abstraction of this promise of an
IOU.
And it's much more convenient and
transportable than I brought two
chickens to the dinner so that we're all
even, right? And once we move into this
abstraction, we start to get away from
the the feeling of what is our our will
that what is the goodwill that we're
creating here? What is the promise that
are made?
So what I do is I give you money because
I didn't do the dishes, but you can use
that money to then have someone so close
for
you. And so someone who is not part of
the original deal can fulfill that end
of the deal. And that's how we move as
society. So the problem has been I think
too many of us have negative
associations with money. If you think
back to your earliest childhood memories
around money, there's a good chance that
one of your
parents, you handled money in a way that
you found it to be
distasteful. I can speak to this. I
think you correct me if I'm wrong. So, I
have memories of my mom taking me to the
flea market swap meet and her
negotiating with other vendors and using
certain kind of negotiation practices I
thought were dishonest, distasteful, and
somewhat manipulative. Now, my mom's a
beautiful human being. She's like a
saint. But in Asian culture, that's how
we feel like we're getting our money's
worth by negotiating and hemming and
hauling about price. And it's very much
a cultural thing, right? Especially in
the Middle East, too. There's this idea
that if you pay full price, you're
stupid. So, as a westerner, I'm like,
"Well, no, it's not I'm not negotiating
with you. This is not how we do it. I
gave you a fair price, and if you don't
like it, you don't have to buy. I didn't
artificially jack the price up so that
you can negotiate me down to the price
in which I wanted to pay." But this
happens a lot in the East, in the Middle
East. So, if you're a little child and
you see this happening, like, oh, this
feels dishonest. It feels gross. Okay,
that's the one thing. And money all of a
sudden then has certain power. Like if
you want to buy a toy or outfit, a
dress, something shoot, I got to go make
money and someone controls the money. I
don't have the ability to make money. So
we take these two powerful things, the
concept of what money can do in terms of
liberating us, giving us what we want
and while simultaneously saying the ne
the negotiation, the transactional part
of money is ve very distasteful and has
all kind of tension built in. What we
don't know is that when we're little
kids, we don't have the ability to
process complicated emotional
experiences. So, we all put it into two
categories. One, it was good, or two, it
was
bad. Right? If you see your mom or dad
yell at somebody, you're bad. Don't want
that. Now, we're adults. We we have the
ability to transact. We're carrying
around old stories with us. And so I
think also if you're an artist or
creative person, you're like, "Well, I
just want to make art. I want to get
back to the IOU
system." But instead, we have this
monetary transactional system that I
just don't like. It it feels cheap.
Feels like this heart, this soul, this
energy I put into the making of this
thing is now reduced down to an abstract
thing that can be transferred to someone
else. Doesn't feel right. So I think the
first thing we need to do is understand
what money is and have a new
relationship with it. And I I I I think
I heard this from Blair Ens, the writer
of the Win without pitching manifesto.
He said, "Think of money as a thank you
note that the more thank you notes you
get, the more you know the clients
appreciate what you do." And who here
does not want to be appreciated? Well,
everyone wants to be appreciated. We may
not want to charge a lot, but we want to
be appreciated a lot.
And so I think the bigger the stack of
thank you notes, the happier I am, the
more I know I found the right client to
do the best work of my life for and that
I know that I'm being
appreciated. And if you'd like not to be
appreciated, charge a few bucks and see
what
happens. They will tell you. They will
not even pay you enough to buy a
sandwich. So we have to have a different
relationship with money. And what
happens with all of us is we feel a lot
of tension and instead of vocalizing
what we're feeling, we internalize it
and it just gets worse and worse inside
of us. That that negative energy
compounds inside of us. And so what a
lot of creative people
do, even business types, they delay the
money conversation to the very very end
and they awkwardly because time's
running out. Oh yeah, by the way, it
might cost
this. You can't just blurt that out at
the end. It's super awkward.
really freaking awkward, man. So, your
inability to talk about money signals to
the other person you're not a good
business
person. And conversely, your comfort in
talking about money is a sign of good
business acumen. And all I ask everyone
to do is to relate it back to an
experience in your life. When you walked
into a
business and you wanted to buy
something, but they're really
uncomfortable telling you what it costs.
No price tags, long process. At some
point, you're probably going to punch
somebody and you're going to
leave. When I go into a store, I want to
know exactly how much it costs. if you
want to do me a giant favor, tell me
what it's been selling for three months
ago and what it might sell for in three
months so I know when I want to buy
this. So since you mentioned that uh
because a lot of the conversational
sales uh that we do that you you help
people with is about pricing and uh how
do you position yourself? How do you
charge premium? And this is I know this
is uh especially for the creative
industry but I think uh many business
owner have a similar challenge so it
applies quite across the board like how
do people know whether um they are
charging the right price and feel great
about it because that's part of what
gets in the way of people asking for the
price they want. Am I charging too high,
too low or is it you know that or they
feel good about what they are charging?
Because if they don't, they know they
are doing good work but they don't
necessarily know whether it's the right
price or not. Right. Well, we're we're
kind of
introducing some concepts here that I
want people to be aware of. The the
processes of sales to me leads naturally
to a pricing conversation. When you're
not good at having the conversational
the conversation around sales, the
pricing conversation is really really
awkward. If you do this correctly, the
price will present itself. I don't want
to get into value based pricing because
that's a whole another workshop, a whole
another day. But what I will tell
everyone is this is if you can do a few
simple things, let me lay it out for
you. Okay? Number one, if you could help
to determine what a person's desired
future state is, like where they'd like
to be x days, weeks, months from now,
where are they now? What's getting in
their way? You've done a lot of good
things already. So, where are you now in
your business? Where would you like to
be? What's getting in your way? What
have you
tried? What has worked? What hasn't?
Tell me about that. And you start to
understand and unpack all this
information with the with the client.
What do you think will solve this
problem? A lot of questions basically.
So if you got this
solution and it got you this
result, it would be worth this amount of
money to
you. It's a lot of questions. And they
said yes. Am I missing anything? No.
Okay. So, if you were presented with a
solution that costs a fraction of the
value that was
created, would you be excited to move
forward? And their answer, if you've
done this correctly, yes. Well, I have
good news for you. May I share some
insights? They're yes. Why notice X, Y,
and
Zed? And instead of doing A, you did B.
You would get there twice as
fast. Would you like to move forward?
They say yes. So the reason why you
don't know what is fair is because you
don't get to decide what's fair. The
person you're selling to decides what is
fair. You can decide what's fair for
you. So what you want to do is you just
want to have a conversation. So all of
us say say it doesn't have to be
complicated. Let's say you sell a
$10,000 coaching package. That's a
pretty good amount, right? $10,000
coaching package. If you don't have a
conversation about the value, the impact
that you create, 10,000 is a lot of
money. That's like two and a half Louis
Vuitton bags. I think that's a lot. Or
that's a fifth of a down payment towards
a a three or five series now fully
loaded. That's a lot of money. And I
learned this from my business coach many
many years
ago is value is contextual. Nothing is
too expensive or too cheap against
nothing. You need context. So the part
that most people don't understand is how
to structure the conversation around
what is the context. They're so focused
on the sale and the ask and the pitch
that they forget about all this other
stuff. What's the context? And that's
all I try to do is I try to teach people
how to ask the questions to get the
context. And by the end of the
conversation, you you know it's a good
fit or it's a terrible fit. And that's
totally okay. One last question because
this is a very common uh Asian mindset
especially in Singapore because you you
asked me before about Singapore mindset
and since we are going to do the
workshop workshop in Singapore. I'm
going to address that. You might laugh
at me because you know in Singapore fear
is one of the predominant emotion that
drive everything. Okay. So we have this
saying uh in in Chinese that says that
in Singapore we are driven by fear of
the government, fear of their wife, fear
of losing out which is for more and fear
of death. Everything is fear based. So
what would you what would you say to
this people when it comes to uh people
being so driven around the fear of what
if something goes wrong? Essentially
that's what people are afraid of. I'm
going to tackle this maybe three or four
different
ways. Again, my my business my former
business coach Kier, he used to work as
lifeguard. And he said by the pool side,
he's his job is to make sure kids don't
drown. He goes, it's the weirdest thing
he's ever seen. Kids in the pool in the
deep end, starts a
panic,
fears his death is
imminent. He says, "It's really weird.
All they have to do is reach out and
grab the coping of the pool. But you
know what they do? They swim to the far
side. And of course, they're going to
drown. So then he has to jump in and
pull their butts out. So he goes, "When
we're
panicked, when we're operating a place
out of
scarcity, when we're nervous about what
other people are thinking, we're not
making great decisions. We're swimming
to the wrong side of the pool. We will
drown and your business will drown."
figuratively, I
think. What if? What if this happens? I
like what if
questions, but most of the what if
questions are pointed in the wrong
direction? What if this doesn't work
out? What if this is a waste of time or
money? What if a client says no? What if
they have a better
option? That's all pointed in one
direction, the negative direction. Let's
take that same thinking. Let's orient
ourselves 180 degrees. What if this is a
bargain? What if they've been dying to
work with me? What if they had so many
bad experiences that this is going to be
a relief for them? What if this solution
allows them to really focus on their
business and grow it to a level in which
they've never seen before? What if they
let me drive the entire
engagement? What if they refer me to all
their rich friends? What if this becomes
the point in my business history that is
the beginning of something
amazing? What if in a year from now
we're celebrated for the incredible work
we've done and are standing on stage
accepting a lifetime achievement
award? What if we're on the cover of a
prominent business or social
magazine? What if our account blows up?
So, I like what if it's just pointed in
the right
direction? Why are y'all focus on so
much
negativity? Next one. You're afraid of
negative outcomes. That's a normal human
response.
So when somebody asks me, should I do
something? They're asking a question
again in the
abstract. Should I invest in this
property? And they don't know what to
do. So I say, well, what else do you
want to do with your money? Well, I
could leave in the bank. Okay, that's
one thing. I can invest in this other
kind of thing. Or there's a lot of
different things where I can invest in
myself. So well given all the possible
options what has the highest upside
potential with the lowest potential for
downside act
accordingly. So people usually just ask
one question like should I do this? I'm
like I don't know should
you what are the alternatives? So we
consider the
alternatives and then we decide
accordingly.
There's a very easy answer to all this
stuff, which is what if nothing
changes three, five, 10, 20 years from
now. Do you see that version of yourself
being happier than today? And if the
answer is yes, don't change anything.
Stay on that winning track. Very few
people are motivated to change when
everything's working really well.
For
example, if you have six-pack
abs, you're not going to change your
diet and your workout routine because
you're at peak performance physical
condition right now. If you're the world
champion, you might tweak a few things
here and there, but you're not going to
go and wholesale change everything.
You're not going to you shouldn't change
your trainer, your habits, your diet, uh
how you process the game day rituals.
You don't change all that. This is why
athletes have a lot of superstitions
because they wore that sock, they
touched this emblem and they said this
prayer and they counted to 55 and then
they entered the field and they played
the game and they played the best game
of their lives. Sports psychologists
will say, "What is your what is your
winning routine? Do that
again. Retrace the steps." And a lot of
this is mental. But as we've learned,
the mind influences the body. So when
you get your mind right, the body will
follow. So you can imagine a negative
outcome and say, "Well, if nothing
changes, this is what I've signed up
for." If you're content with that, do
not change anything. It would be crazy
for you to. If you're living your best
life, doing your best work for the best
clients, making a freaking ton of money
while working
less, stay on that track. So, there's a
there's a quote. I don't know who said
it. I'm going to say Zig Ziggler, but
it's probably not. I'm not sure
everybody. And the saying is, if nothing
changes, nothing changes. 100% and they
would be insane to think otherwise.
That's cool. I think that's a great way
to end today's session and I really
Yeah, I think it's a you know really the
what if is such a great question but it
depends on where we are how we look at
the question. Yes. So I will say this
the the podcast goes out to 10 15 20,000
people. Some people are interested in
what we're talking about some people
aren't. That's totally cool. Some people
are in a place where they'd like to
come. Some people aren't. So, this
really is just a message for the people
who are curious, who've determined that
their best days are ahead of them, but
it's going to require some action. I do
want to say this, the workshop's in
Singapore. It's in June, and if you want
to come, read the description in the
show notes.
We are passionate and committed to make
Chris do event in Singapore the best of
the best and you are going to experience
the best of the best the best of of the
best Chris because that's what we want
from him and we love for you to
experience him with us. Can't think of a
better way to say that. So on that note,
Victoria, thank you very much for having
this conversation with me. And dear
listener, thank you also for indulging
me and sharing some of my thoughts and
philosophies on personal branding and
sales. If if you walk away with nothing
else, I just want you to think about
this. If your business could use a
little extra boost, work on your
personal brand because that accelerates
everything that you do. And if your
personal brand is really strong, learn
how to do a little bit of sales.
And if both suck, I have good news for
you because I'm going to teach you both.
That's the best that I can do. Until
next time, take care of yourself.