Our job when we're selling is naturally
not to sell. What we want to do in the
conversation in selling in the buy sales
cycle is just to help the other person
make a decision cuz they're carrying
around a lot of weight. We think
pitching and selling is talking. But
when you talk, you're not in control.
Now, if you go into the relationship
wanting it so bad, you will have no
power. Simple, straightforward answers
are a sign of confidence and truth. When
you're pitching, the most beautiful
pitch is when they do 90% of the
talking. The video you're about to watch
is a sales workshop that I had in Dubai.
This was just a glimpse of the full
workshop on conversational selling. If
you want more content like this, be sure
you check out the link in the
description. What we want to do in
conversation in selling in the buy sales
cycle is just to help the other person
make a decision cuz they're carrying
around a lot of weight. Okay? And if we
just use that as the our north star, as
our guiding light, I think it's going to
work really well. I want you to think
back to your last sales conversation.
Were you serving or were you taking?
There's a spectrum here. Were you
telling or were you asking? Were you
speaking a lot like long- winded or were
you listening? Did you understand their
pain? Did you empathize? When we get on
a sales call, they want to tell you what
to do and you want to tell them what to
do. So, there's a polite battle here.
And if we can win this, if we can set
the right tone and ask the right things,
then they will give us the control
happily. During that process, they may
raise some questions. We refer to those
in sales terminology as an objection.
They might say, "This is too expensive.
It's going to take too long or you don't
have enough experience or enough
experience doing this one thing that
needs you to do." And then there's this
last part that we struggle with
mightily. We had a good conversation. We
handled all the objections, but we don't
feel comfortable asking for the sale. We
don't tell them what the next steps are.
We don't tell them how much it's going
to be. And so they're sitting there
thinking, "Are you going to ask me or
not?" I run into this problem all the
time. I hire creative people. I like the
portfolio. I'm ready to give them money.
And we have a conversation. Ask them
about the process and how they like to
work. And they can't tell me how much
it's going to be. I'm not going to do
their job for them. So I wait and I wait
and then it comes in an email. They
never say it. So that's the awkward
transition for asking for the sale.
Pricing is positioning. So when you see
similar objects, water, wine, if you're
seeing things priced differently, we
just assume the more expensive thing is
better. The more people want it, it's
more premium. Hotels, cars, everything,
jewelry, tell them what your prices. And
if you're working on project fees, say
projects start at this amount so that
there's room to go up. So when I started
to sell strategy, I had in my mind it
was going to be $10,000 a day. I got it
because somebody else told me it could
be done. I'm like, if it can be done, I
can do it. So, I got on the phone and I
said, "Hey, before we get too deep, I
just want to let you know whatever you
ask me to do. It doesn't matter the
logo. You want me to like look at your
copy? You want me to send you some
colors? It doesn't matter how much work
it is, it will be $10,000." Like, that's
a lot of money. I'm like, I know it's a
lot of money. So, I got rid of them as
fast as possible. Then eventually, one
person says, I'm intrigued. Let's keep
talking. Then that person agreed to,
I'll pay you the 10,000 bucks for
strategy. Then, from that point forward,
my rate was 10,000 bucks. I just need
one person to say yes so I can say it's
happened. Right? So you get a lot of
nos, but I'm setting the benchmark and
I'm getting rid of them as fast as
possible. So I have a couple rules for
you to follow. Number one, whoever asks
more question or talks less is in
control. So if you have your last sales
conversation recorded, ask AI to count
how long you were talking relative to
the other person talking. So we think
pitching and selling is talking. But
when you talk, you're not in control.
You know, there's this funny line in
movies where they're like in especially
in an interrogation, like a a police
officer and a potential criminal, they
say they'll slam on the table like I'll
be the one asking questions. Who's in
control? The person asking the question.
So, if you're talking, you're not in
control. Number two is whoever wants it
more has less leverage. The client has a
problem. They need a solution. So, they
want a solution. You have a problem. I
have no money. So you want money. They
want a solution. You want money. Who
wants it more? Now if you go into the
relationship wanting it so bad, you have
no power. So the idea or the trick is to
not to want it. So if you learn how to
do sales and marketing, you should have
on your side more opportunities to make
money than the client has solutions to
buy. Make sense?
Ferrari or Lamborghini or any
Rolls-Royce, they have a very good
position. They have more customers and
not enough product. They're on the right
side of this equation. So, your job is
to reduce down your need to make money
versus the demand for your services.
Number three, when you're doing too much
talking or you give a super complicated
answer to a simple question, it starts
to make me feel like I don't believe
you. Pretty straightforward. If you ever
watch um reality TV shows, when
somebody's lying, the other person asks
them a simple question. What do they do?
Well, you know, I was walking home and
then his dog and then Mary said this and
then Bobby and you're lying, bro. You're
lying because the truth is very simple.
Simple, straightforward answers are a
sign of confidence and truth usually.
Okay? So, when you're in the role play
and you're talking too much, not a good
sign. First of all, you're not in
control and you might be lying. And the
last one is if you say it, you're
selling. It's an old pitching thing. But
if they say it, you're
closing. When you're pitching, the most
beautiful pitch is when they do 90% of
the
talking. Okay, that's it. Then you're
closing. Now, we're going to do a quick
exercise. And I've never done this
before, but I thought about it in the
shower two days ago. So, we're going to
try it. What I want you to do is take um
a few seconds to you can get up if you
want. You can sit down. I don't care.
There's no rules for this part. I just
want you to take 15 to 20 seconds and to
walk around and observe the room and
we're going to draw. I want you to draw
yourself sitting at the table again, but
this time from the point of view of an
ant. Just use your mind. We're going to
take a minute. Imagine if you're an ant.
Put the ant in the
room and draw it from the point of view
of the ant. Have you ever been an ant
before? The point of it is not the note.
The point of it is you can never
understand what the ant sees or knows
because you've never been the ant. And
when I ask you to draw it, most people
draw it from their point of
view. It doesn't take into consideration
the other person's point of view. So
there's this line from Phil M. Jones in
his book, Exactly What to Say. He says,
"People do things for their own
reasons." And this was just a simple
demonstration of lack of empathy or
empathy. So when we think we know the
other person's perspective, just
remember you've never been the ant. You
do not know their
perspective. And the best way you can
find out what their perspective is, you
can say, "Mr. or Miss Ant, what do you
see? What's it like on the ground for
you?" And you just ask questions. And
then the ant will tell you. In this
case, the client will tell you. So what
was the problem in the past? What is
your desired future state? What are the
obstacles that are getting in your way?
We just ask questions. So Miriam, if we
want to pitch, we should find out what
the perspective
is. And when you help them to articulate
their thinking, you're helping them to
make decisions in an informed way.
You're reducing risk. We're going to do
some exercises right now. The listening
comprehension interpretation exercise.
Now, I want you to focus on the facts,
the things that you read to do
evidence-based listening. We had a
designer before, but they were too
expensive. They did good work. I'll give
them that. But every time we needed a
small revision, they charged us extra. I
don't want to deal with that kind of
surprise again. Okay. What do we do?
What are they thinking and feeling? What
are they saying? And what is what are
they not saying? What else could this
mean? And then what kind of follow-up
questions would you like to ask? Maybe
they're feeling that they are over pain
for no reason. What's the feeling, the
emotion? Uh, it's not worth it. How many
people think that the feeling is it's
not worth it? The only thing I that's
why I kind of agree with Eileene that
they I I put here I put here they felt
wrong because they they you only use
good work. It's not an excellent work.
She's Asian. You see how this is good is
not good enough. Good is just average.
Has to be excellent. Means to me when
you translate it's not good enough for
the price they paid. Here's how I would
I would interpret. Okay. I'm not saying
I'm right. I'm just going to show you
another way. Okay. Maybe it's an
American way. I don't know. Chris, I
mean, I'm talking to myself. It It
sounds like you don't mind paying for
more if the work is really
good. You just don't want any
surprises. Is that a summary of what was
said? He's basically saying, "I don't
mind it to pay more. It's just got to be
good." Okay. So, it's not about the
money. I just don't want any surprises.
So, here's my question for you, Chris.
If the budget was just a little bit more
and included all the little changes that
you're talking about, would you be okay
with
that? I'm not lecturing anybody. I'm not
accusing anybody. Nobody's a scammer.
You You bring too much violence.
Everybody,
Chris, yes. How are you able to pinpoint
everything that was said and then you
said it so concise like everybody here
like I got like a whole two paragraphs
thing. You said it in like six words. So
what was it that you're listening to
that we can take away so that when we're
listening for his keywords that we can
bring feedback to our client? Very good
question. So the thing is what is the
first part saying I don't mind paying
more if it's good. That's what he's
saying. It's a lot but it was good. And
then the last part is I just don't want
to be surprised. Drigo what I do is I
strip away the emotion. I lean into the
logic and I say, "If this were my best
friend who said this to me, someone I
deeply care about, what is the most
generous interpretation of what it is
they're saying?" versus this is my worst
enemy, someone who is the the bane of my
existence, you know, who's going to
torture me for the rest of my life. So,
we're bringing that negative emotional
baggage and it changes our state. So,
when we're angry, everything that is
innocent seems like it's affecting us.
And we're very optimistic. We're much
more open to being taken advantage of.
What we want to do is be
objective. See things for the way they
are. Okay? Does that make sense,
everybody? Not everybody's trying to
insult you. Not everyone's trying to
take advantage of you. Not everyone's
trying to give you money. Be objective.
That's the name of the game. Okay? We're
going to do this
again. Chad GBT wrote this for
me and I said, "Each time, make it a
little bit harder." So, the first one
was hard. Second one's even harder. So,
I would love for someone who hasn't
spoken yet to take a shot. You haven't
spoken in a while, so let's go. So, I'm
gonna read it. Okay. And then you just
say, "Chris, it sounds like." And then
ask me a question. Okay? Try to be as
short as possible. So, what is your
name? Stephanie. Stephanie. Stephanie. I
need this done as soon as possible. My
boss has been asking for updates every
day and we're presenting to the board
next month. I was supposed to have this
started weeks ago. Sounds like you're
under a lot of pressure. I am. Oh my
god. Sounds like you're under a lot of
pressure and you're behind schedule.
That's it. Let's not add anything else.
Everything else is projection. So when
you say what it is that I've been trying
to say, I'm like exactly. You can now
pivot to a good question because if you
mess up the first part, the next
question I'm like, we're not seeing eye
to eye. Try to ask me a question that's
not yes or no. Do you have a project
plan? Do I have a project plan? That's a
yes or no question. What the timing is?
Okay, say that a different way. What's
the deadline? I'm gonna throw it over to
Robin. Robin, hit us up. Chris, it
sounds like you're under pressure to
something extraordinary for the board
next. That's right. Um, so if you want
it fast and done well, would you be
willing to stretch your budget?
I I think I would be, but we haven't
talked about budget yet, so I don't know
what stretching means. So, I would just
ask like
just It's a very good question. So, you
know, see how Robin's like, "I
understand you and I understand the
problem." And to get this, he's going to
start to talk about you right away. He's
ready to go. Okay. All right. Did you
want to say something? Go ahead. We're
going to do the third one now. Go ahead.
Hey, Chris, it seems like you're under a
lot of pressure from
I think uh you're thinking that it won't
be completed by next week. I feel what
if I give you daily updates and also
give you what has been done till now.
Will it make you comfortable? Okay. The
problem with that is you're leading you
too much. Like I got to work with you
and you're going to ask for concessions.
Like nobody's talking about that just
yet. So we want to go step by step. Help
them to make a decision. I understand
you. What is the next thing that's
important to you? Okay. So for me it's
like sounds like you're behind schedule
and you're in a jam. I would just ask
him what needs to happen to get you out
of this jam.
It's his most objective and neutral
question I can
ask. They're like, "Well, can something
be done in three days? Can something be
done in for
$20,000? Can I have a temporary solution
and the permanent solution?" So, I don't
want to lead the solution. I want to
invite them to tell me what the solution
is because you remember how you couldn't
see from the point of view of the
aunt. Don't forget that lesson. I don't
know what this person is thinking just
yet. Just ask. It's the most beautiful
thing you can do. And it requires no
real creative thinking from you, but
just to ask what what has to happen for
this to go away, Chris. And I'll tell
you if I have $100,000. I need it done
in a week and we can need we can do in
three phases. I need to pick a vendor
today and they have to be, you know,
government certified. They have to be
more than this but less than that. all
the information is coming to you versus
would you like apples or oranges? That's
the kind of questions you guys are
asking. If you enjoy this video, this is
just part one of three. If you want to
watch the rest of the series, be sure
you join the patron member here on
YouTube. Or if you want to support the
channel, become a premier member today
so we can continue producing educational
content just like this for free.