Do you know roughly like what it cost
you to acquire a new client? Honestly, I
don't. But I'm just wondering like if
you are open to changing the way that
you treat your let's say contractors or
suppliers as well as the way that your
clients treat you. Do you think it's
possible that maybe they don't treat you
like a partner because you don't treat
other people like a partner? That is a
great perspective. I haven't honestly
thought about that based on the fact
this is a 500 million contract. What do
you think the budget should be? If it
was up to me and I understand you know
the the contract is very high this will
be worth a lot like a lot a lot of
money. Should we pause the role play
there? That was awesome man. Dang.
What did you get from that? Tell me just
play back like what was the biggest take
away? Okay. I wish I had I was taking
notes while I was doing that. The first
thing that broke my brain was
So I'm here today with Alo and we are
going to run a sales roleplay. So Alto,
do you want to just tell me a little bit
about the client that you're going to be
playing so everybody has context for the
business? Sure thing. So this client is
from a big international corporation.
They are mostly based in the United
States, but they are actually reaching
out from a Europe uh division that is
going to be flying to the United States
to do a sort of consultation uh pitch to
a client. So, they want to bring me in
to record their session in hopes that
the pitch will help land this client
long term. internally. They have worked
with people like me before, but this
person specifically from this
subdivision has never worked with a
sketch noter or graph recorder before.
So, they're reaching out to me because I
was uh referred by somebody. Somebody is
like, "Hey, you should talk with this
guy." And they saw my portfolio and they
say, "Yeah, let's let's work with him."
And now they're figuring it out uh if or
how to make it work. Okay, cool. So,
this was a a fairly warm referral. You
know, they're like a big company. I
think they're a big corporate and what
sort of industry are they in? It's like
so software services software support
services. Um so what they're looking is
to help this client with the
distribution of their products in a
software platform. So they don't have to
like have multiple uh subcontractors I
guess or multiple software but just like
a one solution that kind of wraps around
their whole industry. Yeah, makes sense.
And just for everyone watching, what do
you do? I do visual notes, uh, live
visual notes. So, I join events and
meetings in real time, draw the ideas
that are being captured, um, which helps
people get on the same page and also
just get super excited and engaged about
the content that is being shared. Okay.
Amazing. So, we're going to jump into
this. You're going to play the client
and I'm going to play you because you
gave me a little bit of context about
this call before and where you felt like
the stumbling blocks were. So, I'm going
to handle this um using some of the
sales frameworks that we've got and
hopefully do my best to uncover some
things that maybe you didn't get the
opportunity to uncover in that initial
conversation. So, we're going to assume
that you've had a a short conversation
before because otherwise this whole role
play is going to be a bit too long. So
typically uh if someone was referred to
me I would have a very short sort of 15
20 minute call which would which I'd
call a clarifying call um or a
qualifying call and so that we're going
to imagine we've already done that and
we've got some of the basics down so we
kind of know who they are and now we're
having this kind of like slightly longer
and more in-depth call. We'll try and
condense it as much as possible as well
so people don't have to sit through like
a 45 60 minute sales call and I'll try
and just kind of cover some of the
concepts that I see people typically
miss on these kind of calls. Let's do
it. Okay, perfect man. Alo, thank you
for jumping on a call with me today.
It's great to uh connect with you again.
So before we dive into the logistics of
the project and things like that, I
would like to spend a little bit of time
just understanding a little bit more
about the business so that I can just
see how it fits into what I do and if I
can actually help you. I find that
because we've only got a short period of
time for these calls, having a bit of a
structure help. So to start with, we'll
talk a little bit about the business,
what it does, what you're hoping to
achieve. Then we'll talk a little bit
about some of the challenges, why you're
looking for someone like me to help you.
And by the end of today's call,
hopefully we can figure out if this is a
good fit. Are you okay with that? Does
that sound okay for you? Yeah, that
sounds great. Yeah. Okay, cool. And just
out of interest, is there anybody else
that would need to be on this call if we
decided to move forward and actually go
ahead with this project? Is there
anybody else that would need to sign off
on this? That's a good question. Um,
it's it's a hard one because I'm the one
who approves the finance people are the
ones who actually end up leaving the
good to go. Um, so I'm in charge of the
engagement, but finance would tell me if
the budget um is is feasible. Okay. So
theoretically, let's imagine like all
dots aligned and you really excited
about this. What would be the next steps
to kind of get the project moving
forwards?
The next steps? Well, I will need to
know how much it cost. Y and um I will I
will need to sort of justify that to um
to the finances to the finance team.
It's the first time that I'm doing this
and because you're also in the United
States and I'm in Europe, uh it's the
first time that I'm doing this sort of
interaction internationally and there's
a system for like bringing contractors
in. So I want to make sure it all works
out well, that it's all clear so that it
can be seamless. uh otherwise they won't
give me the approval. Yeah, absolutely.
So, one of the things I find when I'm
working with big corporates is there's a
lot of different people involved and
sometimes what happens is we start with
like a concept of something they then go
and talk to somebody else who then goes
to talk to somebody else and it's kind
of like that thing you did at school
used to be called like Chinese whispers
or something, right? So, what I like to
do is I like to make sure that all the
stakeholders are involved in uh a
conversation about this. So if this
seems like a good fit to you today, are
you open to us all having a call
together? I can try. Uh I don't like I
usually don't get finance team involved
in calls like they usually don't do
that. Um but I can try. Okay, cool.
Awesome. Just good to know you be be
open to it. Yeah. Okay, perfect. Um so
to start with, I'd love to know just
like what what made you reach out in the
first place?
Well, I was looking for a graphic
recorder uh because I have this meeting
with a big uh corporation client of us.
They're they're already client of us,
but we're looking to regain their
business moving forward uh and to be
like the sole business provider for
them. Um it's a cool project. So, and
these are cool, creative people of this
company. So, we wanted to have something
interactive, something engaging. And
I've heard about graphic recording
before. So I reached out to somebody
that is on my LinkedIn and when I
mentioned that it was going to be in the
United States, they're based in the UK.
So they said, "Hey, I cannot fly all the
way there. It wouldn't make sense, but
here's this guy uh Matt and uh I
recommend it. Send me the portfolio."
And we saw it here in the office and
people are like, "Yes, this is the guy.
We need to hire him." So that's why we
decided that we should have this call
with you. Amazing. Oh, well, I
appreciate the the feedback. So, I'm
just curious like what was it that you
saw specifically that made you say we
need to hire this guy? Well, your
portfolio is very dynamic and uh it's
very humorous to we just thought it
would be a good fit with the kind of
so here between us it's it's like Nike.
So, it's like a big shoe company and
they have all this stuff that is cool,
dynamic, moving and we saw that in your
portfolio and we thought that this could
be a good addition kind of like matching
the the sense of what we want to portray
with them. Feel like we understand what
what their vibe is um and and what we
want to foster in this relationship.
Mhm. And also to give you a little bit
more of context, they have been through
a little bit of I wouldn't say
restructure, but like there's been
changes in in people in the leadership.
So the people who are coming are are new
and excited and they're like looking
things a fresh. So we want to make a
good first impression. We've been
working with them for a while. Uh but
now because they're new, we want to make
sure that this step forward is something
that they're excited about. Yeah. Okay.
So there's been changes in the
leadership at Nike declining, right?
Okay, makes total sense. Okay, cool. And
so what you saw was you saw like the
dynamic nature of my portfolio. You saw
it was like quite humorous. Um and
really you're looking to like make a
really good impression for these
clients, right? Yes, that's correct.
Okay. I mean, obviously there's there's
other people that do this. Um and so I'm
just curious like why me out of anybody
else that you know might also do this?
Well, to to be honest, you're after that
person that I reach out, you're the
second person that I reach out to
because I have never seen this before.
Somebody just told me about it and then
I reach out. Um, I just think your
portfolio is great. Um, but I'm I'm sure
people here would ask me if there's
other options. So, I haven't done the
research yet. Um, but so far your
portfolio looks really good. Okay, cool.
Um, so do you mind if I just ask you a
little bit more about like the business
currently and what sort of things that
you've done in the past? Sure. Okay,
cool. So, you've got you've got this
client already, but you want to renew
the contract. Is that right? Yes. Yes.
And so, what has happened is that we
support software solutions for them and
they've only seen us as a um like they
pay and we do the service for them. And
what we really want to encourage is a
sort of partnership because we're all
about innovation and about like helping
them find creative solutions. So, we
don't want them to see us just as
somebody who is just like like just
doing the thing kind of like they they
see the menu and they just ask for this
and we give it to them, but somebody
who's having conversations back and
forth because that not only helps us,
but it helps them because we can spot
things sooner that we can change and
improve in their business to increase
their revenue, their their brand
awareness and all that. So, we really
want to be a partner, not just a service
provider. Okay. So the most important
thing to you is that you're a partner,
not just a service provider, right? Yes.
Okay. And are you looking to increase
the value of this contract or do you
think it will roughly be the same? Like
if you manage to become a partner, would
that mean that you get paid more and you
get more work or Yes. Um we imagine it
would bring more work because the nature
of it will mean that we'll have more
insight into what other things we can
help them with which could translate in
more work. Okay, cool. And just to give
me an idea so I can have everything in
context, what's the kind of rough value
of Nike as a client to the business? You
mean like yearly? Yeah.
Um I'd say
probably
500 million maybe. Okay. Yeah. Okay. And
you mentioned before that like you've
you've not really done anything like
this before. So I'm just curious like
what is it about this type of work like
that I do that you think is going to
help you to secure this contract? It has
to do with kind of the the vibes and the
feeling of the interaction that we have.
As I said, like we really want to
position ourselves as not just a service
provider, but like as an innovative
partner and part of that innovation is
just bringing things that
are outside the box to to say it in one
way. So we in the past we haven't done
graphic recording sketch notes with this
client. Um, and just being able to bring
that conversation and like essentially
kind
of reflect back to them the things that
we have talked about um in a way that is
not aminute but it's just something that
is fun that reflects their ethos you
know um I think it would be uh very very
effective from my perspective is just
matching that that vibe having them feel
like excited pumped um and be like oh
these guys are creative they're not
techy, you know, nerdy guys, but like
they're also cool. So, that'll be
something that we will um that we're
looking forward to to have in our
interaction with them. Yeah. It sounds
like you're trying to change the
perception they maybe have of you right
now. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, cool. That makes
total sense.
Um, so just so that I understand the
context of the actual
event, are you literally just pitching
for new business or is this part of a
bigger event that you're putting on?
This is ideally the first interaction of
a few more. Um, we we want to have this
interactions probably not in the US, but
like there will be different sorts of
meetings with them. We're just making
this like the big thing of like bringing
them here to kind of get started and get
them pumped. But yeah, there's there's
many conversations after this. Um, don't
know the nature of them if they're going
to be more inspirational or more like
tactical and I don't know if it's going
to be all of them, but yeah. Well, I
guess what the better question would be
what do they think they are coming to
attend? Gotcha. Okay. Yeah. So, what
they're coming to attend is
essentially express the things that
they're looking or like the the pain
points or the things that they're
looking to do with their brand and hear
from our perspective how we can help
them. Okay, cool. So, it's a pitch
pretty much, right? Mhm. All right,
perfect. Let's
imagine that we're talking again after
this event has happened and it's been
like 10 out of 10. You've knocked it out
the park. Everything's gone exactly how
you planned. What are some of the things
that would have happened to for you to
be like super happy about this pitch?
Well, we we they're eager to continue to
work with us in this new capacity. Um,
ideally they not only talk with us but
also
like refer us back in in within their
business to other departments that could
work with us in different capacities.
Um
they I feel like if if they rave about
it, like if if they go back saying like
these guys are really awesome, uh that
would be a win for us for sure because
again, we've kind of been stuck in a box
of like the nerdy techy things, the
techy people. Um we want to be more than
that. So I think there's that. I mean,
gaining the business of course or
maintain at least maintaining it would
be good. Mhm. Gaining it in this new
perspective of partners would be
amazing. Mhm. Anything else? I think
that's it.
Yeah. Okay. And is there anything else
that you're doing right now in order
to bring them round to being more of a
partner? Um kind of changing your
perception in their eyes to make you
more cool, to make you more innovative.
um and to kind of be treated as a
partner that has these like
conversations back and forth apart from
bringing someone like myself in. Is
there anything else that you're you're
doing right now to achieve that? Yeah,
that's a good question. The only one
that comes to mind right now is just
actually bring them to this meeting
because we're like flying them from all
over. Uh
so we we're kind of treating it as not
only we're just meeting for a business
thing, but we're also meeting um in a in
a sort of like experience capacity, you
know, like a this is an experience. It's
not just a pitch. It's not just a uh a
meeting, you know, a corporate thing. So
um I mean they seem pretty excited about
traveling.
So that is something out of the box
because we could have had a meeting like
this online. Um but we're trying to do
things differently. Okay. So apart from
the event itself and actually getting
them there, there isn't there isn't that
much more that you're currently thinking
about doing in order to get this
outcome.
No. Okay. And that's a good question.
Yeah. Yeah. Makes sense. Um, so talk to
me about some of the challenges or
concerns. Like if you think about that
10 out of 10 outcome, like they're eager
to continue to work with you. They're
raving about you back at head office.
Um, not only have you kept the business,
but you've made yourself a partner and
you've really changed their perception
of you as a business. What are some kind
of obstacles or challenges to actually
getting that outcome?
The immediate ones is our finance team.
uh because again as I explained this is
something that I kind of have to justify
it and
I I I I foresee some resistance if
there's
um if if it doesn't align to kind of
budget it's sometimes hard to kind of
explain them uh things that we want to
do if they're like very tied to a
budget. Yeah, 100%. And that's actually
one of the reasons why I mentioned that
at the beginning of this conversation
because I find that as well when I'm
dealing with these big corporates. You
know, a lot of the finance team are just
fixated on a specific budget that
they've come up with, but often that
really holds them back from getting the
kind of business they want to get and
you know, changing the perception of
their brand. So yeah, I can totally
resonate with that. Yeah. The other
thing would be just like involving you
as a as a contractor because I have
never done it and um we need to move
through this quickly. So, um I mean I
know that's part on my end and I need to
learn how to do that regardless. Yeah.
But it's also like how how easy it is to
kind of get you in the system and all
that. Yeah. Let's let's just zoom out.
Imagine you're not working with me.
You're working with anybody, right? Or
like you know this is kind of big
picture. Here's the 10 out of 10 vision
that you're trying to achieve. What do
you feel are some of the challenges or
obstacles that might prevent you from
getting Nike really eager to continue
working with you, raving about you to
their head office, but more importantly
like changing their perception of you
from this kind of worker who just does
what they say to this partner who's
actually innovative and cool.
Maybe if if the the visual noteaker
comes
and and doesn't really understand the
concepts we're talking about and doesn't
translate it well. Mh.
Um that's a risk. Like I don't know I
don't know how quickly you work or if
this is like things that you just took
notes and then translated or something
that you do like live and it shows up
like that live. Um because if we just
have like a bunch of text during our
meeting um people are going to be like
so what's going on here? You know like
there's this Yeah. So you don't want
people to be confused. Yeah. Yeah. Um
if we zoom out of the kind of like
visual aspect that what I'm bringing to
the table at the moment and let's
imagine even for a second that you're
not bringing me in. What are some of the
other challenges that might exist?
um the logistics of
like traveling. Um we're doing this this
meeting in in Washington state. Um and I
understand you are not there. So like
the logistics of bringing you in, okay,
wait, I think maybe you're like
misunderstanding my question. Let's
imagine you're not working with me.
Let's imagine I'm not in this picture.
What are some of the challenges that
might get in the way of everything you
just outlined to me as like a 10 out of
10 outcome? So basically like what's
going to stop you guys really impressing
Nike, making them really eager to
continue working with you, raving about
you to head office, maintaining the
business, but more importantly
maintaining it in a way that means
you're a partner, not just a worker.
Like what's going to get in the way of
that me and my worker side? Forget me.
Okay.
Um yeah, I think it just comes down to
not being to convey the the message
clearly when we have that call uh that
that meeting. Um then feeling like
there's a disconnect between what we're
proposing and what they actually need.
Mhm. So,
um yeah, I I think that that would be
the main thing that would worry me that
they they don't quite get the message or
the or the idea of partnering. Yeah.
That they still feel like it's just
service provider. Yeah. Like you can be
all flashy and everything, but they
still go away thinking, "Oh, these are
guys that just like developed the
software." Yeah. Yeah. Okay. We want
them to to be to feel open to just talk
with us on a more regular basis and like
unearth those things that they may not
tell everybody but can help us provide
better solutions for them, refine the
products that we do uh and come up with
ideas for them. It's not just like
giving them what they ask but also
propose new things for them. Yeah. Okay.
Makes sense. So, it's really about not
just giving them what they ask, but
actually proposing new ideas. Yeah.
Perfect. Got it. Anything else? Yeah.
Um, I think that that might be part of
it like during the the the pitch meeting
thing like we we want to be able to
capture some ideas that might come up
right there and then because if we can
show them right there that we can come
up with ideas then it might be easier
for them to see that in the future we
can do that as well. Um, so there might
be a level of
um, I guess
improv within this of like we might ask
some questions that could bring some
challenges that maybe they haven't
mentioned before and we would love to
right there and then show how that
relationship could look like. Yeah. And
so this is an interactive session,
right? So you've got somebody on your
team who might be able to come up with
some of those ideas and actually ask
them some of those questions on the day.
Yeah. And that and that wouldn't be your
role. You be only capturing, but yeah,
you'll have somebody who's be
facilitating. Yeah. Okay, cool. Anything
else that might prevent that sort of 10
out of 10 outcome.
I No, I think I think that's it because
the other way my brain goes is just the
logistics of it. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So,
let's I just want us to think about two
scenarios for a second so I can just
understand the full scope of the kind of
challenge here, right? So, let's imagine
the 10 out of 10 version where they go
back and they're really eager to work
with you. They're raving to you about um
they're raving about the event. They're
raving about you. Um you maintain the
business, but you also managed to change
the relationship from worker to partner.
What is the longerterm impact of that
for you and the business as a whole? Why
is that so important? Well, we don't we
we grow the business. we're able to
innovate because we we will learn some
things from our client that we can
incorporate not only to the services to
them but also within our company.
Um then we don't have to chase other
clients like we don't have to find other
clients. If this client is a sort of
retainer thing on the long term then of
course that's great financially. Um just
a quick question on that if you don't
mind. Do you know roughly like what it
cost you to acquire a new client?
I honestly I don't um because I'm in the
client relationship, not in the uh
usually acquisition. Like I even though
this is kind of acquisition, it's a
client that we already have. So yeah.
No, I get that. It's like more account
management. Yeah. Correct. Do you think
somebody on your finance team would know
those numbers?
I I could ask around. Mhm. Yeah. Okay,
cool. Why what do you ask? Well, because
I want to know like what the difference
is between let's say you you don't keep
them as a client, right? I'm trying to
figure out in my mind how much time,
energy, effort, money you'd have to
invest to go and get a new one versus
just keeping this one. Like I'm trying
to figure out how much of a big deal it
is for you guys if these if these
clients don't renew. Gotcha. Okay.
Um Okay, cool. So, yeah, you don't have
to go chase other clients. What else
would be like some of the the positives
or some of the knock-on effects if this
went really really well?
I think those are the main ones. Okay.
Yeah. So, growing the business, not
having to chase other clients, but
what's because you you mentioned before
you put quite a lot of emphasis on this
idea of like being a partner rather than
a worker. So, yeah. How does that play
out long term? Like why is that so
important to you?
I mean, this this would be again, this
would be great just because it's it's
way easier to handle a relationship with
somebody that we're partnering with. Uh,
it's more it's more engaging. It helps
us create products that help more uh and
reduce the friction. You know, like
sometimes what has happened is if we
create a software, the client uses it
and because they're just using it on
their own, they may experience some
trouble. There might be people who were
not inside the conversation initially
and they don't know how to work it out
or they mess it up. Uh, and then they
get frustrated at us because they don't
know how to use product very well. So,
if we are partners and we're like in
constant communication, we can manage
that for them so they don't have to
worry about that. So that translate into
more uh an easier kind of interaction, a
better understanding of the product that
we do and the value that we bring uh and
just reduces the friction for them which
we are always looking to do make it
easier for our clients. So we believe
it's it's a good option for them because
it makes it easier for them. uh is also
a good option for us because it allows
us to address those pain points earlier
on if there were um to show up. Yeah,
that makes sense. Yeah. Address those
pain points earlier in the journey,
right? Yeah. Mhm. I'm just curious, this
is a bit of a a question sort of
like from the back of my brain that's
just kind of landed in this
conversation. Yeah. Um, do you feel like
you treat your suppliers as partners,
the people that are helping you?
That's a good question. In general
terms, they usually just provide things
because there's very specific things
that we need. Um, and I guess you might
be bringing it that up like our
relationship, you know, with you if we
were to work together. Um because I I
haven't thought about that because it's
kind of like a one-time project that is
usually discussed. So it doesn't make
sense to talk about a partnership if
it's just one product. But if there was
a way in which this going to be
incorporated into many
things and it makes sense for a
partnership. I wouldn't be opposed to
that. I'll be curious. Um for now we've
mostly hired suppliers that are for
specific tasks. Yeah. Can I just tell
you the reason that I ask? Sure. Um, a
lot of the time I find that when I'm
talking to businesses, often the thing
that they want is not actually the way
that they are currently doing business
or showing up. And so there's a bit of a
kind of double standards. They're saying
like, "We want our clients to be
partners, but we're not happy to treat
our suppliers as partners." And so I'm
just wondering like if you are open to
changing the way that you treat your uh
let's say contractors or suppliers as
well as the way that your clients treat
you. Do you think it's possible that
maybe they don't treat you like a
partner because you don't treat other
people like a partner? That is a great
perspective. I haven't honestly thought
about that and it makes a lot of sense.
Uh I would be open to that. I know it's
not all up to me, but that sounds lovely
uh to be honest to to carry that from
the way we do business with others and
the others do business with us. Yeah.
Because partnership is kind of like a
philosophy, right? It's like the way
that you have relationships with people.
Yeah. So to be selective with that seems
Yeah. a little bit like double
standards. Yeah. I mean, I understand
that sometimes business is business and
because I'm part of a big corporation,
sometimes there's mechanisms that I
cannot control. But as much as I can in
my interactions with suppliers, I would
love to have that sort of transparency.
I'm curious if Nike said that to you,
what would be your response?
If Nike said that to us,
what you mean what I just said to you?
Yeah. I mean, I'd be curious to know
how what would make them um consider and
and value a partnership with
me. Um, and what parts within their big
system and and their mechanisms and
processes
uh would have to be addressed in order
for us to have
uh that partnership. Yeah. Because
what's interesting is I'm sure you'd
have an answer for them, right? If
because they're a big corporation and
there's lots of different things. So
it's like corporate to corporate. So you
actually have an insight into this, but
maybe you haven't listened to the people
going through that process from the
other side to really understand what
it's like as a supplier. Mhm. Now, I
know I'm not an expert in like business
or I'm not, you know, I'm I'm not here
to like help you build partnerships
directly, but as a supplier, I know what
it's like potentially to go through your
system if we work
together. And so, you guys have to go
through Nike system because they're a
big corporate as well, right? Yes. And
that's really everything that we're
doing here is about communication. So, I
know what I'm talking about is like
visual notes, but really it's about how
we communicate as people. Mhm. Does that
make sense? It makes it makes a little
sense. Yeah. Thanks for bringing that
up. Yeah. Yeah. No worries. Well, we can
park it for now and maybe come back to
it later if we feel that it's relevant.
But what I want to make sure I've done
right now is just got a proper picture
of kind of where you're at, where you're
trying to get to what's standing in the
way. And then I want to potentially
propose some ideas or solutions that
could help you whether we work together
or not. How does that sound? That sounds
good. Yeah. Very cool. So, what I've
heard so far is that there's this big
client Nike who uh you want to maintain
a relationship with, but more
importantly, you want to ensure that you
keep getting business from them in a way
that positions you as a partner rather
than just a worker. And really the thing
that's important to you is that you are
seen as kind of innovative and cool and
you can kind of open up these
conversations so that you can find ways
to help them more, not just be a
delivery partner for them. Yep. That's
summarized as well. Okay, cool. And so
like a 10 out of 10, what you really
would like make this event amazing is
that they would be eager to continue
working with you. They'd be raving about
you to their head office. You'd
obviously maintain the business, but
more importantly, you'd be able to grow
the business and you you wouldn't have
to chase other clients and you would be
able to change the relationship you have
with them so that you can solve bigger
problems for them. You're good. Yes. Uh
that's exactly it. Okay, cool. And the
biggest challenge you see right now,
you've got a few challenges around
finance. um a few logistical things
about how you bring a contractor in, but
really like the biggest challenge is how
do we
communicate the ideas in a way that will
get them to actually open up and uh kind
of let us in to their ecosystem so that
we can maybe discover things that we
weren't able to discover before.
Yeah. Does that sound about right? Yeah.
Okay. And so really like being able to
convey that message clearly is is kind
of one of the biggest challenges. Like
if you can't do that and if they don't
understand the concepts and they don't
understand like what you're trying to
say then you're probably not going to be
able to achieve that outcome, right?
Yes. It's it's that and just kind of
like the the the feeling of like
excitement about it. Um Okay. Yeah.
Because it's part of the reason why we
want something cool because we want them
to feel excited about it. Yeah. Okay.
And just quickly before we move on to
the next section, like what is the
consequence of getting this wrong and
this like not working at all? What does
that world look like?
I think it'd be pretty difficult to lose
the client completely. Uh we'll have to
really screw it up for that to happen.
Um but I think the worst case scenario
is just kind of staying where we are um
in a minimum capacity.
uh you know maybe they they yeah they we
just keep doing business as usual which
is not a terrible scenario um but still
it's not what we want because we still
have the the complexity of it and the
kind of lack of insight uh in their
business. So yeah, it it would something
would have to go really really bad to
like lose the client and I don't I don't
expect it
to Yeah, I don't think there would be
anything that could go that wrong. Okay.
Hopefully not. Yeah, hopefully not. Um,
okay. So, like losing the client isn't
really a risk, but there's a there is a
risk that things just like stay the same
basically and you guys just stay where
you are and and what is like the longer
term impact of that if nothing changes?
It's a good
question. I mean, I I guess if nothing
changes, it's just it's kind of
abstract. It's like the things that we
don't know um that could help our
business um we still wouldn't know them.
So, we'll have to figure out a way to do
this sort of things with other clients
that we have in hopes that those
relationships can eventually bring back
to speed and Nike and be like, "Oh, I
want what they have, you know?"
So, but yeah, I feel
like it would just kind of be the lack
of knowledge and insight that we have
and just still have to deal with some of
the friction that happens from what I
mentioned before of like them not using
the software correctly or having some
issues understanding. I have to think
more about that, but that's what
I what comes to my mind right now. Yeah.
and and obviously like you're unlikely
to just lose the client from this one
event. But if you weren't able to get
them to use the software properly and
you weren't able to kind of demonstrate
how you could solve bigger problems, is
there potential that in 6, 12, 18 months
time they might reduce the scope of the
contract?
Not sure. I mean, I guess that could be
a risk.
Um, they haven't reduced the scope of
the contract in years um where we have
been working.
So I I don't see how they could escalate
that much. Maybe the risk is just that
they don't get benefit from new things
that we're doing because they keep the
scope the same. You know, with all this
AI stuff that is being incorporated,
they might not be able to adapt as
quickly. If they're keeping the same
sort of thing or they're like
apprehensive towards doing new things,
but I don't know if that's something
that we could necessarily
like force, you know, like something
that they'll have to be convinced that
they want to take the risk. Um, and it
just comes back to trust in seeing that
we can manage that and we can do that
for them. Yeah. And in your experience,
how do you build like you're someone on
the front line, so in your experience,
how do you build that trust? Uh, well,
it's it's usually case studies of like,
hey, we're doing this new thing. Are you
interested? And um sometimes we just
incorporate, you know, some updates and
then just do some training, but it's
mostly kind of tie it up to the ROI that
they expect to get from it. So if it's
if it's
working, it doesn't mean that it that
it's working to full potential, but
sometimes if it's working, the client
will still be okay. This is fine. Um, so
we need to figure out ways to
demonstrate that it could do more. Um,
and if we cannot do it with one client,
there might be opportunities to do it
with other clients, then then we can
kind of show. Yeah. Um, okay, makes
sense. And just in terms of kind of like
urgency and size of problem, like if 10
is like we need to nail this and we need
to get it right sort of now and one is
this isn't that important. Where are you
on that scale?
uh seven or eight I think. Um so this
it's a new opportunity because it's a
change of leadership so we can kind of
start a fresh in a way. So in terms of
that it's a unique opportunity in terms
of like urgency because we have the
client already. Um we don't necessarily
need to like upgrade I guess the the
relationship with them. We just want to
because we think it's more beneficial.
So it's not a matter necessarily of
urgency but it is important. Um it
doesn't need to happen right now. Uh
but right now there's a good
opportunity. So that's why it's 78.
Yeah. So why is it not lower than a 708?
Well that's a good question. Um I mean I
guess it's just I have in my mind that
this thing is coming up. So like if we
miss that opportunity
then I I I don't have right now
um ideas of how to build something
similar that is as
consequential because of having
everybody together in the same room.
Mhm. So that would be kind of the
urgency of it that would make it be like
that because if if we were not meeting
with them, then it might be like a five,
I guess. Um because we could figure out
other ways to do
it, build it slowly, you know, instead
of having a bigger impact on one
meeting. Yeah. And just out of interest,
what would need to happen in order for
it to be a tent?
Um they
uh it might have something to do with a
competitor already building something um
as powerful as what we can build for
them and then feeling the pressure of
keeping up with that.
Uh it might have to do
with maybe
they they've had some flops uh you know
in in terms of branding and their brand
awareness is going down. So they need to
really push other ways to maximize their
their returns despite that. Uh so they
need to get creative quickly. I guess
that would be kind of like an external
thing. Um so the the urgency right now
it's on our end. I feel like it would be
a 10 if we could sense the same urgency
on them of kind of like, hey, we need to
do this now and this is very important.
So, I don't know if that's something I
can't control or influence that much.
But you might be able to if you improve
the communication and you able and they
were opened up a little bit more um and
let you in, then you that's something
you might be able to find out.
That's true. Yeah. I could I could I
could find out if I improve the
communication. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Cool.
And I guess we we could know at the at
the event itself, like when we meet,
that's something that we can assess
there based on their feedback.
Yeah. Absolutely. Okay, cool. So, we've
kind of got like an overview of of where
we're at, where where we're trying to
get to, the challenges, the impact, the
urgency. I'm just curious like in the
grand scheme of all of these things, how
much influence like if if I came in and
helped you to um
really effectively communicate in a way
that they really got these concepts from
a different perspective and they really
saw you differently as a result of some
of the work that I'm going to be doing
there. How confident do you feel that
you would actually get this outcome that
that we've just discussed?
I mean, if all the dogs are in a row,
um it it feels like it would
be very very easy to attend the
business.
Um
so yeah. Okay. So, I've got some like
highle ideas that I'd like to run past
you just to see if this kind of fits
with with where you're thinking. Is that
right? Sure. Yeah. And and just curious
because I I also want to know like in
terms of the the scope and and the price
and all that. Are we going to get to
that or are we going to have another
conversation? Yeah, totally. I can I can
give you a ballpark of what that's going
to look like 100%. Yeah. Okay. Okay.
because I I'm I'm I've enjoyed this
conversation and and you're very
insightful and very good at what you do.
Um I I'm also being pressured to get
other quotes from other people to kind
of compare where it is. So I will I will
need to know how to um how to defend
that. Um because so far your style is
really good and you seem to know what
you're doing and to understand our
goals. Um I just want to make sure that
there's no push back. uh if there's any
other uh quotes that I might find. Uh
yeah, well there definitely will be,
right? There'll be like you know, right?
There's people out there that can build
the software that you build cheaper and
do the things cheaper than you do. So
there's always going to be people out
there that be able to do things cheaper.
There's no question about that. Yeah.
Okay. So, we can totally talk about
money, but I think first of all, before
we do that, it's probably important to
figure out even if the ideas that I have
and the kind of process that I'm
suggesting we go through aligns with the
goals that we've just discussed, right?
Okay. Okay. Perfect. So, the couple of
things here you've mentioned, right? The
first one is that it's really important
that the the person that's helping you
convey these ideas in a different way
really understands the ideas because if
they don't there's a danger that they're
going to kind of draw something or do
something that doesn't make sense or
maybe even damages that relationship.
Did I hear that right? Yes. Okay,
perfect. So the first thing I'd suggest
is that we have an initial stage where I
come in and I really learn about some of
the unique insights and the ways that
you are trying to engage with this
client to make them think differently so
I can kind of be on the same page as
you. And so when I'm doing that drawing
um I can actually have the same insights
that you have and I'm not trying to make
things up on the fly. Does that make
sense? Good. Yeah, that makes sense.
Cool. And so then once we do that, the
second thing is that I want to just have
an understanding of the overview of the
day. So how it's going to go and what
the sections are so that I know like
what the role is of those ideas that I'm
trying to communicate in the overall
structure of the day, not just in
relation to what I'm drawing. And I
believe that that will really help you
to input these kind of cool creative
ideas at the right points in that
conversation, not just randomly.
Yeah, that sounds good. That makes
sense. And and then the final part is
like on the actual day, I think it would
be a really good idea to have somebody
on your team kind of sitting with me so
that if something changes and they're
like, "Oh, I really want to convey this
idea." then we can kind of discuss that
and I can actually draw that with them
rather than me trying to come up with it
myself.
Okay. Um yeah, and I could be if if we
were to work together, I'll be right
next to you and if there's any like
lingo or anything like that that I need
to explain, like you can ask me directly
or I can be just right there like
telling you, hey, this means this. Um
but hopefully we would address that in
the previous call that you mentioned. uh
the one note alignment. Yeah,
absolutely. Okay, cool. So, in terms of
like process and way of doing things,
does that feel like it's gonna get you
to this outcome? Is there anything I've
missed or is there anything else that
you're kind of worried about or you need
to add in?
Yeah. Um, I I guess just like ideas of
how to because what I've what I've
understood so far from the little that I
know about like the sketch notes and and
graphic recording, it's like you like
come to to to the event and you draw the
things and and that's it, right? Like
there or is there something else
involved in that? Like is is it digital?
Is it is it with with markers or um and
what do you do with the thing after um
it's stuff that is still kind of unclear
to me. Yeah. So obviously like based on
the conversation we just had this it's
not just that simple like the first step
is me coming in and actually
understanding what the ideas are and if
you like we can kind of pre-ketch some
things out and kind of approve them so
that we have some things to present that
everybody's on the same page as. Um,
then on the day there will be like some
live elements, but it'll be mixed in
with ideas that we're already confident
that are going to work based on what you
know about the client and what you're
trying to convey. Oh, that'd be
interesting actually. Like incorporating
some drawings in advance to the
presentation that we're doing. Yeah, I
haven't thought about that. Okay. Um, so
that's that part. And then the second
part of like what do you do with the
materials? Like you guys you guys get to
keep those. Um, and that's something
that you can even give to the client if
you like. Um, and you can use them like
moving forwards in order to kind of
reinforce any of these ideas. So,
they're they're actually things that you
can use moving forwards. Okay. I know we
haven't talked about price, but like in
in in the price, do you also
include like the transportation or is
something that we have to cover and the
lodging and all that? How does that
work? Yeah. So, the the quote that I
give you will be for the full solution.
So like you don't have to worry about
anything. I will get myself there. Um
I'll include those initial sessions.
I'll include the brainstorming. I'll
include all of that. Like you know my
job like you guys want to be a partner
with Nike. I want to be a partner. So
I'm you know involved in the actual
result that my clients are trying to
get. Not just coming and drawing on the
day and then leaving and you guys worry
about whether that works or not. Okay.
Okay. Sounds good. Yeah. That would make
it easier to have just one code. Okay.
So, one a couple of things that you
mentioned in terms of things actually
standing in the way. One of them was
finance. The other one was like how you
add a contractor. Um, but apart from
money and like logistics, would there be
anything else that would stop us moving
forward with this project based on the
conversation that we've had today?
I can't think of anything right now.
Um there might be something that I will
figure out once I talk with other people
who who provide the same service because
again it's the first time so I don't
know what I don't know. Yeah. Um but I
I'll be open to kind of discuss that
with you if I find something hey this
this guy is offering this thing or this
person is offering this other if it's
something that is included within what
you do. Um I'll be happy to because
honestly we love like and I speak for my
team as well like we we love the work
that you do. Yeah. So, um I I'll
be right now it's kind of like you're
the preferred one. Even though you're
the first one, you're the preferred one.
So, um ideally we'd like to make this
work. Yeah. Awesome. And so, I'm just
curious like if I'm the preferred one
and everything that we've spoken about
today align, why would you continue
looking for other people?
Because I have to justify to finance.
The thing about
like because of the structure of the
company. If I just give one quote, they
might infer that it's just like a
fabriism and like they might question
why I'm making the the decision. Whereas
if I have multiple quotes, I can at
least justify, you know, comparing to
all those other quotes, they want me to
just do my my due diligence essentially.
Yeah, it makes total sense. So, you've
got to show that you've actually done
some research to them to justify it. and
and like what are some other elements
that um are sort of or what else some
other things that you have to use to
justify who you pick?
Well, the the price, what's included
within the price.
Um
and just kind of show show examples
um like of the of the work that you've
done. Um sometimes they've seen that
already though, right? Because you you
guys have seen my portfolio and you said
that this is like your favorite third
one, right? Yeah. Um one thing that they
might ask me is like experience in
similar situations because I I from what
understand it's mostly like events and
big things but I haven't heard about
like pitching and and like situations of
like a dynamic of the meeting that we
have. So if you have experience in
similar situations that would be useful
to tell them hey this guy has done this
before he you know um and if you could
drop some logos or or names you know if
that's possible that would be great
because it would give more credibility
um to to when I present this. Yeah. So,
just so that I'm clear, I know we
haven't actually spoken about budget
yet, but just so am I clear in your
head, are you pretty convinced like this
is the right solution and you want to go
forward and the other quotes are really
just there to tick boxes or are you
genuinely looking around for another
solution?
I this is the solution that I've
thought. I haven't thought about other
solutions to it. I mean, worst case
scenario, we don't have you and we just
have like a normal meeting and there'll
be something else that we'll have to
incorporate to make the experience more
engaging for them and be like excited
about working with us. Um, but this is
the first one just because it's so it's
so linked to the actual pitch to the
actual meeting. Um and and besides that,
I feel like the the final thing which is
unfortunate is like I can justify it all
I want but if they have a fixed budget
and I cannot move that that's something
that I cannot control. So I will need to
know the budget and to just run it by
them and see if that's feasible. Yeah.
Well, I'm just curious like based on the
fact this is a 500 million contract and
you said that you felt pretty confident
that if we did this properly, it would
help you to not only keep that contract
but change the relationship that you
have with the client. What do you think
the budget should
be? That is a good question.
I don't I don't know if I can answer
that because I mean if if it was up to
me
and and I understand you know that the
contract is very
high this would be worth a lot like a
lot a lot of money and I I hesitate to
say that number because saying that
number knowing that there might be
people who
um have done like similar
services for not a number.
It's like I I don't want to say a number
and then feel like guilty for not being
able to meet it because our financial uh
Yeah. No, it's totally cool to me. Like
if you guys can't meet it, then you know
that that's not on me. That's on you
guys, right? It kind of doesn't make
make a difference to me. Um you're the
guy you're the ones that won't be able
to do the project in the way that we
pitch it. So it's not like an offense to
me or like it doesn't really make a
difference to me. I'm just curious. I'm
trying to wrap my head around the size
of the problem because honestly I'm not
really in the business of solving small
problems. So if this is like a $500
a,000 problem pound problem for you or a
dollar problem for you then like it's
probably not as worth even me like
organizing another meeting and kind of
doing some of this initial groundwork.
Um, but if it feels like a significant
problem that, you know, if we do this
properly is going to be worth hundreds
of thousands of dollars to you guys,
then it's definitely worth us continuing
the conversation. Yeah. Yeah, I can
understand that.
Um I I know from the conversation that I
had initially with the first person who
referred to me, they were talking
somewhere within the the ratio of like
three to 5,000 uh dollars for the day.
Um which is just kind of the the
baseline that I was considering. Like I
haven't thought about the repercussions
of all this, but I imagine it must be
somewhere around there. Um, is it I
don't know. Yeah. So, that was just for
the day, right? Yeah. Yeah. So, based on
like everything that we've spoken about
in terms of the fact that I'm going to
take care of my travel, I'm going to do
the like groundwork to actually come in
and understand the ideas and I'm kind of
concerned about you guys actually
getting the result. Do you feel like it
should be similar to that or higher than
that?
I mean, for for what? Because it's not
just a drawing on site. M I can see
how it makes sense that the fee is
higher than that. I'm just concerned
that I don't think the financial
team has considered anything higher than
that. Yeah. I'm just curious like do you
have any influence over the finance team
at all?
I I have some influence, but they're
going to have the last the last call.
Yeah. Because if if they say, "Hey, we
need to keep it under this budget and
that's it." Like I can I cannot leverage
that because it's not like we have
sponsors for this, you know, like it's
okay. It's going to be Would it be
possible that there would be other ways
that you might be able to generate more
revenue from this to justify a higher
cost?
I have to think about it. if there was a
way in which I can measure like
immediately the impact of this and and
say like hey we're making money with
this. I know it's a like yearly contract
but it's still kind of fluffy if you
know what I mean like it still feels
like it's not immediate. Um and these
guys are like hard number people you
know like show me the numbers. Yeah. So,
and I'm just curious like do you feel
like that ever holds you back in like
the role that you have to maintain and
impress these clients?
Yes. Okay. Yeah. Would you like to be
able to change that?
I mean, that'd be great. Okay. So, what
do you propose? Well, what I'm proposing
is that we work together the way that
you want to work with these clients
because what I'm seeing right now is a
mismatch. And this is what I brought up
earlier. like you're saying to me, I've
got these restrictions around finance
and I can donate to X, Y, and Zed. And
you're you're basically treating me kind
of like a number, right? Which is kind
of how your clients are treating you.
So, what I'm proposing is that if you
want to change the relationship with
your clients, you change the
relationship with your suppliers. And
what I'm proposing is that I use some of
my skills and some of the things that
I'm good at around communication to help
you change the relationship that you
have with your finance team to get them
to treat you more differently and to
understand this concept as a whole
internally as a business about how
relationships are built and why people
are treated as numbers and workers and
why people are treated as partners. And
I'm just wondering if you'd be open to
that. Yeah. if if there was a way in
which we
could a so the reason why it might be
hard to kind of uh talk about a
partnership is because we're talking
about a one event. Mhm. So a partnership
in the way that we're framing it with
Nike is like something that we're doing
continuous work over time. Mhm. So, I
think it'd be it'd be odd for me,
honestly, to try to find opportunities
in which we can work maybe with Nike and
have you part of that
relationship. That would be something
that I could justify within the budget
of where we're charging Nike. It's
included this in the long term. So,
you'll know that we'll keep working
together.
Um, and and I'll need to work more on
that. And if you have any any tips for
that, I would appreciate. Yeah, that's
what I'm suggesting, right? What I'm
suggesting is that we work together
because like it seems at the moment
you've got like this limitation of
budget which is really restrictive for
you in actually building relationships
with clients. Right? So my job is is not
just to like come along and deliver work
and then leave. Like that's the job of a
worker. My job is a partner and a job of
a partner is to ex open opportunities
just like you're trying to do with Nike.
You're trying to solve bigger problems.
You're trying to get them to open up to
you. You're trying to get them to do all
of these things. I want to do that with
you. And so I want to come up with ideas
about exactly that. How do I get
involved so that this is something we
could pitch to Nike to do as part of our
service? And what about other clients?
Like if this goes well, are there other
clients in your portfolio that we could
use these same strategies on to either
change the relationship you have with
them or potentially even get more money
from them? You know, that's the kind of
relationship I want to have. So we don't
have to get into the logistics right
now. And I also don't expect you just to
trust me upfront. I would like to
demonstrate some ways that we can do
this. this and there are some smaller
things there are some smaller steps that
we could take first before we kind of
commit to this longerterm partnership
but the most important thing that I'm
trying to establish on this call is
whether you and your team are open to
having those kind of relationships with
suppliers like myself yeah I'm I am open
and after this
conversation you've tapped on things
that I haven't considered before and I
truly appreciate that and I I I'm very
curious to see what other uh prov
providers how they approach it. U so far
this is this is great and if they're not
like at the level that you are that
would make it easier for me to um to
assess how to continue relationship u
but yeah you've you've opened a new
perspective and I appreciate that. I
will be open for that. Yeah. Cool. Well,
look here here's a here's a question for
you. So what other stakeholders in your
business do you feel you need to impress
or get on board in order to have a
partnership or the kind the kind of
relationship I've just
described? I mean besides finance is
that cuz at at the end of that when they
approve the budget I have free reign on
how I manage this. So um yeah that would
be the only one. The rest of my team
they love your work. So
that they're like, "Yeah, let's let's
hire this guy." Worst case scenario, if
we could get finance on a call, which is
not something they usually do, and I
could get them to think differently the
way that I've got you to think
differently, do you think that even if
we never work together, do you think
that might help you to start to change
that relationship you have with the
finance team and maybe whoever's calling
the shots in the finance team, like the
CFO or somebody like that in order to
give you a little bit more leverage with
that department?
Yeah. And I appreciate that you're not
concerned about like sealing the deal or
not. Just like helping me get the
conversation with them because I don't
know how to get the conversation started
with them. So yeah, I would absolutely
appreciate that. Well, maybe I could use
some of my skills in terms of the way
that I take ideas and frame them in
different ways, which is exactly like
why we're having this conversation.
Maybe I could use some of those things
in order to help you with that
relationship first. Yeah. Is there
anything like is there an amount of
money that you don't need sign off for
from finance?
What do you mean by that? Well, like a
lot of corporates there's like a certain
level. So like $10,000. Anything below
that, they don't need sign off from
finance. They can spend the money. But
above 10,000 they have to get approval
from finance. Gotcha. U it's usually
around 3,000. Okay, cool. So what about
just as a as a little experiment? What
about if we did a project between me and
you which was say like uh
$1,500 and I helped you I showed you how
we can communicate
visually and actually helped you use
that to start conversations and change
the conversations that you currently
have with the finance team. What would
what would that sound like? That'd be
lovely.
Um
I I worry that we may not have enough
time to actually do the Nike thing if we
do this thing first. Mhm.
Um so I mean I'm up for that. Um I'd
probably need about one or two hours
max.
Okay. Then in that case I think yes.
Okay. Cool. And so what I think that
would do is give you a really good
um experience of what it's going to be
like on the day. And I think it would
help you make a much more informed
decision rather than just like talking
to all these suppliers and seeing which
one does like the best interview. You
actually get to experience what that
work is like. And then you can actually
decide whether I'm the kind of person
you'd want to put in front of Nike
because you've experienced it for
yourself. and you're left with some
tools that you can actually use with
finance for future projects that would
allow you to maybe get more budget from
them and actually change the
relationship that you have. That sounds
good. Yeah. Okay, great. When's the
earliest that you would be able to do
that?
Uh probably next like in within a week.
Okay, great. Have you got a time in your
I can pull up my calendar now and we can
get something scheduled in.
Sure. Cool.
Okay. Should we pause the role play
there?
Yeah. That was awesome, man.
Dang.
Wow. Wow. Yeah, man. That was that was
fantastic. What did you get from that?
Tell me. Just play back like what was
the biggest take away? Okay. I wish I
had I was taking notes while I was doing
that. Um Well, this is all recorded
luckily for you. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So,
the the first
thing that broke my brain was how you
addressed the double standard. Yeah,
that was very very good. Um, so let's
just pause on that cuz hopefully this
might this little debrief at the end
might be like really valuable for people
who are just like what the just happened
there. Right. So, that's that's
something that I would call there's a
book called challenger sales and that's
something that I would call a challenges
challenger sale. And so what most people
don't realize is like when they're
dealing with these big corporates and
people that are kind of like high
profile or there's a lot of money at
stake, the majority of suppliers will
basically treat them as if they are kind
of gods, right? And like everything they
go everything they says goes. What I've
learned is that like the higher up you
get, the less people challenge you. So
if somebody comes along and challenges
you in a way that is like understanding
and empathetic and not like aggressive
it it makes people think differently
right and so that's if anyone wants to
like read more into this it's called the
challenger sale now in our sales
framework that we teach people that's
not part of it that's something that I
just brought in because in the majority
of cases in sales the thing that is
holding people back is the exact thing
that they are currently doing. So in
this case it was they wanted their
clients to treat them like partners but
they were treating all their suppliers
like workers. So they had these double
standards. Well most people have got
that they want their client to invest
100 grand in their brand but whether
they're a freelancer or a small creative
studio they've never invested in their
own business. And so they're trying
they've got double standards basically.
So just for everyone's reference that's
kind of what I did there is I called out
whenever I hear like double standards or
when I challenge people's ways of
thinking. So yeah that's the first one.
Right. What else did you have? Yes, that
was that was great. Um, the second one
and it was most uh almost at the end
when
you when you proposed doing a sort of
smaller kind of
demonstration the the words that you
used was like I don't expect you to
trust me right now because we just met
or something like that you said. So like
let me let me show you. And that was
that was I feel like that's kind of
risky, but it was good. It was bold
because it just shows, hey, I know we're
talking big numbers now.
So, this made me feel of like uh if I
just go with this guy and I commit to do
a partnership like how do I know it's
going to work out? So, like you
facilitate that was very valuable. Yeah.
And Yeah. Cool. So, let's just pause on
that for a second. So that's we call
that a logical next step. So it's the
gap between having this initial sales
call and this like big core project. The
important thing to do there is to paint
what you want and to paint where you're
going, the big numbers, the big
partnership and then bring it back to
something a small easy next step because
then in relation to that big thing, it
seems really small. If you don't do
that, it can still seem like a big leap
for people. But they're like, "Well,
originally we were talking about this
100 grand project where we're spending a
year together and blah blah blah. Now
all he wants to do is like meet next
week and the project is $1,500."
Yeah. And it's two hours. And it's 2
hours. Yeah. So, a lot of people miss
that because that's your opportunity to
take that person from a prospect to a uh
customer, right? They actually just
bought something from you. They just
spent some time. They spent some money.
And you're demonstrating how you
actually help them. And in the creative
space, that's often really important.
And it's a little bit like test driving
a car. You see a car from the outside,
oh, it looks really nice. You get in it
and you're like, oh my god, this thing
drives so incredibly like I I want to
take this home, right? And so we call it
a logical next step. And it's about
derisking that project and that
conversation as much as possible.
Yeah, that was great. Um, I also
realized when you started mentioning
because I've gotten this objection of
kind of like it's it's like you go and
draw it's kind of what people see that
we're uh selling when there's a lot of
process within that. And one thing that
I was thinking is if I reduce the amount
of process that translates into things
being easier for the client which adds
more value. But actually when you
mentioned that there was more
process in my head I was justifying the
price. I was justifying there's more
things involved in it so it must be
worth more which which was a
breakthrough for me uh in terms of like
big tier clients. I I I I think if
people have lower budgets, it makes
sense they want that it's more valuable
for them to have less process. But if
they have more budget, it makes sense
that there's more process involved
because that translates in less risk.
Yeah, maybe. So, can I tell you what I
was thinking about? Tell me. Yeah. I was
thinking about what do I need to do to
make it really likely that this is
actually going to work for you? And I
looked at all of your
concerns, which I wrote down, by the
way. Obviously you you know you said you
wish you were taking notes. I was taking
notes and when I repeat when I repeated
the whole situation back to uh you and
you were like oh yeah you're good it's
just I'm just reading my notes right I'm
just reading what I've written down but
one of your biggest concerns was that
you were going to be able to capture the
ideas properly and actually then convey
them in a way where you understood the
concept as well as the client. And so I
was talking to that key concern, that
key objection, and and what I did was I
called the concern out and then I talked
about how in my process we have a thing
that relates to that core concern. Mhm.
Yeah. No, that was that was good. Nice.
That was good. Um, I know there's a lot
to take in there because you're playing
the client and trying to deconstruct the
conversation, but I think it's important
to like think about how did you feel in
that process and what were some things
where you had maybe that light bulb
moment and you were like, "Oh, that that
was a breakthrough or that changed the
perception of the way that you saw me."
Uh there was also a point in which you
were asking about
um like what could what could go wrong
and what could go right but you you
frame it in a way of like let's get me
out of the equation. Let's say it's not
even me who you're working with. U
because everything that I was thinking
is like how to work with you
specifically and then when you put it
out there just make it seem more clear
like the big picture what's really
important instead of like the nuance of
working with you. So I thought that was
that was clever like getting yourself
removed from the scenario just to talk
about the actual goals and the actual
problems. That was uh that was
insightful for me. Yeah. Yeah. And a lot
of people make that mistake, right? They
get the prospect talking about them and
their product and their scenario whereas
we really want them talking about wider
objectives and wider challenges. Yeah.
Yeah. Cool, man. Anything else?
There must be more. What was your sort
of biggest insight from a like if you're
now being you instead of the client?
What was your biggest insight in the way
that I sold your services knowing not
really anything about them versus the
way that you've been selling them? Uh
the the biggest insight was the
partnership part. That's definitely one
that I'm going to start exploring more
because it's something that I've been
frustrated about. Most of my clients,
their events that happen once a year,
and I'm not, you know, like opposed to
that, but I would love to just continue
to working with them and helping them
support in different ways, just
essentially being a partner. So, um,
just kind of addressing that, it's
something that I want to keep working on
and ways that I can be a partner for
them.
Um, I I never really
ask the question of
like when you ask like how much does
this relationship with Nike translates
in business revenue, you know, per year.
I've never asked that question before.
Um, and a lot of people are afraid and I
think the reason they're afraid is like,
who am I to ask this question? So, I
think like justifying and giving some
context is really important. But if you
notice like my tone throughout that, it
was always I'm just curious like in
relation to it wasn't like so how much
is this worth to you and like what would
it be and you know um
and and so like what I want to say to
everyone is like this is a very
different style of sales and I know
Chris for example is a big fan of just
kind of trying to get to that budget
conversation as quickly as possible like
do I want to talk to this person or not.
What I hope that people see from this is
often these little like opportunities
that you think, oh, they're they're just
very transactional, often there is the
opportunity to build something a lot
bigger. And it's by having this style of
conversation, you are able to form
relationships with people that could
last several years. But more
importantly, I took
responsibility for opening those doors.
Like I was positioning myself, if you
imagine, we're like two tennis players.
It wasn't like we were hitting the ball
backwards and forwards. I was coming
over to your side of the court and
standing and being like, "Well, we could
hit the ball there." You know, I was
being your tennis coach. I wasn't being
the opponent. And so, I was trying to
get on the same page with you and figure
out what's your key objection. How does
that frustrate you when you're trying to
help other clients and finance is like,
"Oh, no. We don't have that budget. How
could we solve that problem?" So, I'm
just in that conversation always as a
problem solver, as a partner, as
somebody on their side, and somebody
who's there to challenge their thinking
and challenge the status quo, not just
come in and scribble a bunch of notes.
Yeah. Yeah.
I love that. I love that. And this this
this example was, you know, from an
actual it's not the exact same brands
and all that, but um from a prospect
call that I had that is one that I was
looking forward to because this sort of
interaction and now I can see even could
could develop into more. I I have my
homework of like thinking how this
translates to events like because in an
event is not a client that they're
recurrenly working with. It's kind of
like an experience they're developing.
So I I will need to do more research on
that. But it's definitely still
um my brains rearrange things there. And
I love the metaphor that you just gave
of like being on the same side of the
court trying to help them, you know, how
do we do this? Um how do I help you?
What what angles can we take together
instead of I'm the opponent and you kind
of have to react to me. So that's great.
Yeah. Yeah. And wasn't it cool that you
actually came up with a solution where
you're like, "Well, maybe we could get
you involved with the client where it
could be part of our delivery." And I
was like, "Oh, yeah." And there might be
other clients that we could do that
with. And then all of a sudden, you
know, our thinking has expanded. And
that's ultimately like people that
charge a lot of money is they challenge
people's thinking and they expand
people's thinking like what is possible?
And that's they get excited building
relationships with those kinds of
people, right? Because it's expanding.
It's not just delivering this creative
service. Yeah.
Yeah, that's awesome. Awesome, man.
Well, thank you for being part of the
sales roleplay. You did a great job
being the client. Thank you. Thank you,
man. I love role plays, but and I don't
get to be the client that often. So,
it's also it's also a good exercise of
empathy, you know, because I was trying
to think how they were feeling and don't
also feeling the questions that you
asked me. How does that make me feel? It
helps me understand that asking some
questions is not confrontational. It's
actually very refreshing to kind of get
the the the brain juices going. So, it
empowers me to be a bit more um what's
the word? Just I guess more more vocal
and like suggest more things u as
opposed to just kind of like try to ask
the the general things of like okay so
what's the goal that you have and that's
kind of it and not prying or you know
pulling the thread a bit more into that.
Yeah. I guess what I'm trying to say is
it doesn't it doesn't feel intrusive,
you know, and and my perception
sometimes is like I don't want to ask
that because I don't want to sound too
intrusive, you know, like it's like I'm
asking very personal things. Um and in
in a sense what it made me feel is like,
hey, you you care about my results and
try to figure out how to make it work.
So that was really good. Yeah. And I
think the last thing I'll say is if you
notice the conversation, 80% of it was
me asking questions and only really like
20% me kind of saying something or like
making a statement. Yeah, that's true.
Yeah. Awesome. Cool. Thanks. Awesome.
Yes. Absolutely.