If you feel like you're undercharging
for your creative services, but you're
not sure how to raise your rates without
scaring all of your clients away, then
this video is for you. In the next 10
minutes, I'm going to show you how to
double or even triple what you charge
without even changing what you sell.
I've helped creative business owners
like Yens go from charging 8K to 16K in
a matter of weeks. Aleandro was able to
double a client's budget in one sales
conversation. All of this was possible
using a powerful but simple pricing
strategy called anchoring. And I'm going
to show you exactly how it works. I'm
Matt Essim. I'm one of the coaches here
at the future. Over the last decade,
I've had the privilege of working with
some of the world's most talented
creatives, from ex Disney executives all
the way through to lead designers at
Spotify. One of the things that they all
have in common is they are usually
undercharging for the work that they do.
And it's not because they're not
talented enough or because their
portfolio isn't good enough. It's
because they are making some really
fundamental mistakes. Today, I want to
show you exactly what those mistakes are
and how you can fix them so you can
double or triple what you charge using a
simple psychological pricing principle
called anchoring. So, let me ask you a
question. Is $500,000
expensive for a property?
The first question that probably comes
to your mind is, well, it depends. Where
is it? So, if I said, "Is $500,000
expensive for a two-bedroom penthouse
overlooking Central Park in New York?"
You would say, "No, that's crazy cheap,
right? What's wrong with a property? Why
is it so cheap?" But if I said, "Is
$500,000
expensive for a two-bed apartment in
somewhere rural in America in the middle
of nowhere?" You would say, "Yeah,
probably." Right? So when you hear a
price, when you hear a number, your
brain automatically compares it to
something. We have this kind of internal
system of reference around price. And
what's interesting is we all actually
have different references. Now, the
example that I just used there is a
common one because most people know that
if you want an apartment in central New
York overlooking the park, then it's
going to be millions of dollars, right?
So we kind of all know that that's the
market standard, but we also have our
own internal reference. So I if I said
to you or if I said to a group of 100
people, what's a lot of money? They
would all have different answers based
on their own perception of money. Now
the reason I'm telling you this is
because this is one of the fundamental
principles that we need to understand if
we're going to control the reference
that our clients have when we tell them
how much we charge. So anchoring is
really about controlling your client or
your prospect's internal frame of
reference about price. So typically what
happens with most creatives is they will
have a conversation with a client and
the client will say, "Okay, great. This
all sounds good. Like how much is this
going to be or what's the ballpark
range?" And the person selling the
services will just give them a range.
And the client will either think that's
expensive or cheap. But what they're
doing is they're probably comparing it
to other quotes that they've had or what
they've paid in the past for a logo or a
brand design or worse. You know, when we
get referrals, it's like they're
comparing it to the person who you
worked with before who said, "Oh, by the
way, this person did me a logo for
$3,000, right? Or, oh, they built me a
website for this much." So, they've got
that number in their head. So we're
already losing the battle before we've
even had the conversation. And so one of
the fundamental principles to understand
before we get into the tactics behind
how we anchor price and how we control
that anchor is that everybody has an
internal representation of money. And
something can only be cheap or expensive
in relation to something else. So you
might not always know what that person
is comparing it to, but know that if
somebody says something is expensive or
somebody says something is cheap, it's
because they are comparing it to
somebody else. And if you really want to
change how much that you charge for your
creative services, we need to be in
control of what they are comparing it
to. And this is where anchoring comes
in. And this is where this really
powerful psychological strategy comes
into play that's actually quite simple
to use. Now, there's a few different
ways that you can do this. And you can
do this kind of through marketing. You
can do it through differentiation.
You'll hear Chris talk a lot about brand
and how brand can anchor value and
perception. And I agree with all of that
stuff.
The only challenge with marketing and
brand and all of these other things is
that they take a long time. You don't
just build a premium brand overnight.
You can definitely do some things with
positioning. But one of the easiest
ways, the ways that I help my clients to
double or triple what they charge in a
very short space of time is just by
controlling the sales conversation that
they have and asking the right
questions. So anchoring and what I'm
about to share with you is really just
like a fundamental principle about
valuebased pricing because valuebased
pricing is essentially saying what is
this worth to you and what am I going to
charge in relation to what it's worth to
you. That's kind of how at a basic level
value based pricing works. So when I'm
working with my clients one of the first
things I'll do is I'll start to listen
to how they're having sales
conversations. I'll start to listen to
how they're presenting their services on
a call. And most of the time, what I
find is that they aren't creating an
anchor. They aren't creating a
perception for the client where the
client is comparing how much they charge
to the size of the problem that they
have or to the size of the goal, the
upside that that client is going to get
if this thing works. So, in a very
simple sense, because I want to keep
this video short and because I want to
just focus on this one principle, I'm
going to give you some questions and I'm
going to give you some frameworks to use
in your next sales conversation which
can help you significantly increase your
prices. So, one of the really important
things to try and do in a sales
conversation is get a reference point
for the size of the problem that they
are solving or the potential upside of
solving that problem in a very specific
monetary term. So, I'm going to give you
a few examples from my clients and then
you can think about how this might apply
to your business. So, let's take
Aleandro for example. He ran an
animation studio and he did some really,
really high-end work. Had some very
unique animations. They were incredibly
popular, but he really felt stuck. He
stuck at this ceiling of about 10 15k
was the most he could ever charge for an
animation. And so we looked at his sales
conversations and one of the things that
was happening is that he was being
compared to other agencies that were
offering animation and he couldn't get
out of this comparison trap. So, what I
taught him to do was before he even
presented the offer, get really clear on
what problem he was solving for the
client and how much it would be worth to
the client to solve that problem. And to
find that out is actually quite simple.
And I'm going to I'm going to talk about
some challenges that come up for people
in a minute, but I just want to give you
some suggested questions that you can
ask on your next sales conversation. So,
one of the things I started to get him
to ask was, "Why is it so important that
you create this animation? Like, what do
you hope that it's going to get for
you?" And they would start saying things
like awareness and we want to be
different in the market. And then he
would ask again, okay, cool. And what
would that give you? So, we're really
just kind of drilling down into like
what are they actually trying to achieve
by having this particular thing? And
then once you get down to that goal or
that challenge that they're trying to
overcome, the question is actually quite
simple. And clients won't always have an
answer so we can kind of help them a
little bit with this. But we're just
going to ask the client, if you could
solve that problem, or if you could
create more brand awareness, or if you
could do X, whatever it is that they
tell you that they want, what would that
be worth to you in monetary terms,
right? and you really want to try and
drill down some numbers. So, for
example, there was a typical client that
Allesandre was working with and they did
these animations and one of the things
that they did was they took these
animations to these big festivals
because they really wanted to build
their brand awareness of this product.
And so, Aleandra started asking
questions like, "Okay, and how many
people attend this festival? And if
somebody signs up to your app, for
example, like what's an average sale
worth to you? And how many sales would
you hope that this animation would
increase? Now, what I'll say is not all
clients will have this information, but
at this point in time, I'm not that
worried about that. I want you just to
get good at asking these kind of
questions and putting a monetary value
to the size of the problem that you're
solving. And this is the key principle
around anchoring. We have to figure out
what is the size of the problem we're
solving in monetary terms or what is the
potential upside in monetary terms. Then
when we present our price, it should
feel like they are comparing what we are
charging to the size of the problem that
we are solving. Right? That is the real
kind of basic principle around
anchoring. And it's a really simple one,
but it's one that a lot of people miss.
So if you haven't discussed a monetary
value in relation to the size of the
problem that you're solving or the
potential upside then that client is
always going to be comparing your price
to something external. Right? So that's
the overall concept. Now I just want to
talk about a couple of things that come
up for people when they do this. The
first thing people say to me is clients
don't want to have conversations about
numbers. Right? They don't want to tell
us our numbers. And what that tells me
is that they haven't preframed the
conversation properly. When I say a
preframe, all I mean is that you tell
the client what the conversation is
about and why you are having it. What I
typically say at the beginning of sales
conversations is today we're going to
talk a little bit about your business
goals. We're going to talk about your
challenges and we're going to dive into
some of the logistics of your business
and I'm going to ask you some questions
about your business and it would be
really useful for me if you could share
some of the numbers. And the reason for
that is because I want to make sure that
if we decide to work together, there's
some real tangible value for you, some
return on investment, and we're solving
a significant problem. Because if we're
not, then I'm probably not the best
person for you to work with. Right? So,
we're framing it in the context and the
interest of your client rather than you.
That's the first thing. That's the thing
that most people come up with. Clients
want to keep their car cards close to
their chest and so they don't want to
tell you these numbers. The second thing
that people tell me is that clients
don't know the answer to this. And so
what I typically do is I typically
suggest things to them for that question
like what would that be worth? They
sometimes go, I don't know, like it
would be amazing. It would be priceless.
And I'd say okay well like just give me
give me some numbers. Would it be worth
a million pounds? Would it be worth
£100,000? And I basically start to give
them a spectrum. And what I'm getting a
feel for is what they believe the size
of that problem is in monetary terms. So
if you can't get those numbers from the
first conversation you have, what I
typically say is it would be really
useful if we could all have a
conversation with somebody on your team
that knows these numbers because without
them it's very difficult for me to
decide whether I can help or not and
whether there's actually any value that
I can add here. Right? So I made this a
requirement in my business. I said, I
don't really want to have conversations
with people that don't want to tell me
their numbers, that don't really have a
big problem to solve because otherwise
I'm just churning out work and I don't
really know what it's doing and how it's
helping people. So if you can come at
these conversations from that
perspective like you want to solve big
problems for people, you want to
understand if you can definitely help
rather than just jumping to a solution
and you are comfortable enough being
uncomfortable which is asking these
difficult questions then you can
transform your sales conversations and
you can double or triple what you charge
in a very short space of time. So that
is the principle of anchoring. So I'd
encourage you to think about go away and
practice thinking about what problem am
I actually solving here for my ideal
clients and what is that worth to them
like in a monetary term and practice
having some of those conversations so
that you can start figuring out what
your services are actually worth. And if
you find that they're not worth a lot
then I would really consider like who
are you trying to help? Who is your
ideal client? And maybe the people
you're working with right now aren't the
people that you need to be working with
in the future. If you enjoyed this
video, hit the subscribe button and
share it with a friend. My name is Matt
Essim. Thanks for watching.